Removed : 150  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : 155  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : Pillar 2 – Inter nal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Added : Pillar 2 – Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Removed : I. Introduction and Purpose  
Added :  
Removed : 1. All banks licensed by the Central Bank of the UAE must ensure that Pillar 1 risks - 
Added : I. Introduction and  Scope  
Removed : credit, market, and operational risk - are mitigated by capital, in compliance with the capital 
Added :  
Removed : adequacy framework articulated in the document Central Bank “Regulat ions re Capital 
Added : 1. This Standard  discusses the key principles of supervisory review, with respect to 
Removed : Adequacy” issued under Notice 60/2017 and the supporting capital standards and guidance, 
Added : banking risks, including guidance relating to, among other things, the treatment of interest 
Removed : articulated in the document Central Bank “Standards and Guidance re Capital Adequacy of 
Added : rate risk in the banking book, credit risk (stress testing, residual risk, and credit concentr ation 
Removed : Banks in the UAE”. Incompliance with the Standards, each bank i s required to quantify all risks 
Added : risk), operational risk, enhanced cross -border communication and cooperation, and 
Removed : that are not covered, or not sufficiently covered by Pillar  1 capital, and determine the additional 
Added : securitisation.  
Removed : capital required to mitigate these risks. The capital required to cover these risks is referred to 
Added : 2. Banks are only permitted to perform a Pillar I Plus approach. Internal models are not 
Removed : as Pillar 2 capital.  
Added : allowed in ICAAP for estimating capital requirements for credit, m arket or operational risk. 
Removed : 2. Each bank is required to have a process to assess its overall capital adequacy as a 
Added : For risk management purposes, banks may use internal models, but figures reported to the 
Removed : function of its risk profile and its strategy. Each bank is required to maintain appropriate capital 
Added : Central Bank should be based on the Standardised Approach.  
Removed : levels in accordance with the Central Bank Standards on Pillar 2 capital. This process is termed 
Added : 3. All buffers are to be in addition to existing requirements. An off -setting of cer tain 
Removed : the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP).  
Added : requirements is not permitted i.e. lower Pillar 2 for Pillar 1 risks are not allowed.  
Removed : 3. As part of the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP), the Central Bank 
Added : 4. The type of capital which the C entral Bank  will require banks to provide  for pillar 2 
Removed : analyses the capitalisation levels of banks among other information, referring to the results  of 
Added : risks will be solely at the discretion of the C entral Bank ; this may be CET1 o nly, or a mix 
Removed : the ICAAP with regard to the internal view of capital adequacy. If the evaluation concludes that 
Added : between CET1 , AT1 and Tier 2.  
Removed : the capital levels of the individual bank are not satisfactory, the Central Bank may require a 
Added : 5. It should be noted that given a normal business model the capital risk charge for Pillar 
Removed : bank to meet an adjusted Minimum Capital Adequacy ratio acco rdingly.  
Added : 2 should always be positive if the risk exists (in particular for the IRRBB and Concentration 
Removed : 4. Consequently, Pillar 2 is both a bank internal process reported under the ICAAP, and 
Added : risk).  
Removed : the evaluation of each bank’s compete capital adequacy includes the ICAAP in its regulatory 
Added :  
Removed : process - the SREP. First, it is the responsibility of each bank to en sure that its ICAAP is 
Added : II. Definitions  
Removed : comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale, and complexity of its activities. Each 
Added :  
Removed : bank bears the responsibility for the appropriate identification, estimation, and reporting of 
Added : 6. In general , terms in this Standard  have  the meanings defined in other r egulations and 
Removed : risks, and the corresponding the calibration of capital necessary to mitigate these risks. 
Added : standards issued by the Central Bank. In addition, for this Standard , the following terms have 
Removed : Second, the ICAAP is a critical reference for supervision and for the supervisory dialogue 
Added : the meanings defined in this section.  
Removed : between banks and Central Bank.  
Added : a. Concentration risk  is the potential for a loss in value of an investment portfolio of a 
Removed : Purpose  
Added : bank when an individual or group of exposures move together in an unfavorable 
Removed : 5. This Guidance presents minimum expected practices to be considered by each bank  
Added : direction.  
Removed : in order to undertake their ICAAP, covering the process, content, outcome, and usage. It 
Added : b. Cyber risk  means any risk of financial loss, disruption or damage to the reputation of 
Removed : clarifies the application of the Central Bank’s expectations regarding the requirements of the 
Added : an organisation from some sort o f failure of its information technology systems.  
Removed : Central Bank ICAAP Standards.  Note, that the Central Bank plans to iss ue separately detailed 
Added : c. Management information system , or MIS : Any process, system s or framework used 
Removed : requirements relating to the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP).  
Added : by an institution to collect, store or disseminate data in the form of useful information 
Removed : 6. It also intends to support each bank in the identification, measurement, reporting, and 
Added : to the relevant stakeholders for decisi on-making.  
Removed : mitigation of Pillar 2 risks. This Guidance does not prescri be specific methodologies but rather, 
Added : d. Operational Risk:  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
Removed : it provides a framework, within which a bank should elaborate research, analyse, and draw 
Added : processes, people, systems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk 
Removed : conclusions relevant to the risk profiles of their books. Each bank remains fully responsible for 
Added : but excludes strategic and reputational risk.  
Removed : the methodology and process su pporting the ICAAP.  
Added :  
Removed : 7. All methodologies employed by a bank for its ICAAP should be relevant to its business 
Added :    
Removed : model, risk profile, to the geographies of its exposures, and, in particular, to the features of the 
Added : 156  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : UAE economy.  The methodologies and processes emp loyed by the bank in its ICAAP should 
Added : III. Importance of supervisory review  
Removed : be fully documented, transparent and replicable. Each bank should be in a position to justify 
Added :  
Removed : their decisions and modelling choices with historical data and benchmarking across a range of 
Added : 7. The supervisory review process, as set forth by the Central Bank , is intended not only 
Removed : practices, which will be subje ct to supervisory scrutiny. Models employed for the measurement  
Added : to ensure that banks in the UAE have adequate capital to support all the risks in their 
Removed : 151  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : business, but also to encourage banks to develop and use better risk mana gement 
Removed : of Pillar 2 risks should comply with the Central Bank Model Management Standards and 
Added : techniques in monitoring and managing risks.  
Removed : Guidance.  
Added : 8. The supervisory review process recognises the responsibility of bank management 
Removed : 8. The Central Bank may apply proportionality for smaller and less complex banks when 
Added : in developing an internal capital assessment process and setting minimum capital 
Removed : evaluating the  ICAAP. This does not mean that smaller or less complex banks are exempted 
Added : requirements that are commensurate with the  bank’s risk profile and control environment. 
Removed : from the reporting requirements or from undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the risks 
Added : Bank management continues to bear responsibility for ensuring that the bank has adequate 
Removed : they face. Smaller banks have to perform the whole ICAAP and address the full reporting 
Added : capital to support its risks beyond the core minimum requirements in Pillar 1.  
Removed : scope. In cases where a bank’s capabilities lead them to use simpler methodologies, a more 
Added : 9. The Central Bank will evaluate how well ba nks are assessing their capital needs 
Removed : conservative capital treatment may be appropriate. However, the Central Bank expects a more 
Added : relative to their risks and intervene, where appropriate. This interaction is intended to foster 
Removed : sophisticated risk management approach from large banks and/ or banks with  complex risk 
Added : an active dialogue between banks, the Central Bank  such that when deficiencies are 
Removed : profiles in the assessment of their Pillar  2 risks.  
Added : identified, prompt, and decisive actio n can be taken to reduce risk or restore capital.  
Removed : 9. For the licensed operations of foreign banks in the UAE, when this document refers to 
Added : 10. The Central Bank  recognises the relationship that exists between the amount of 
Removed : the bank’s Board, it should be comprehended as the Managing Director and/ or the highest 
Added : capital held by the bank against its risks and the strength and effectiveness of the bank’s risk 
Removed : committee in th e UAE operations of the bank in which the Managing Director has to be the 
Added : management and internal contr ol processes. However, increased capital must not be viewed 
Removed : Chairman.  
Added : as sufficient for addressing increased risks confronting the bank. Other, complementary, 
Removed : 10. This Guidance serves several purposes. It  
Added : means for addressing risk, such as strengthening risk management, applying internal limits, 
Removed : (i) Explains in more detail the Central Bank’s expectations on fulfilling the 
Added : strengthening t he level of provisions and reserves, and improving internal controls, must also 
Removed : requirements of the ICAAP Capital Standards, in particul ar, related to the ICAAP 
Added : be considered as complimentary measures. Furthermore, capital must not be regarded as a 
Removed : (process) at each bank and certain aspects of the content of the ICAAP report;  
Added : substitute for addressing fundamentally inadequate control or risk management processes.  
Removed : (ii) Covers expectations on some processual elements of the ICAAP, such as an 
Added : However, the Central Bank  may require banks to hold more capital to compensate for 
Removed : appropriate approval process of the ICAAP report and its submission timelines; 
Added : deficiencies.  
Removed : and 
Added : 11. There are three main areas that will be particularly suited for its  treatment under Pillar 
Removed : (iii) Formulates expectations about additional sections of the ICAAP report (e.g. 
Added : 2: risks considered under Pillar 1 that are not fully captured by t he Pillar 1 framework (e.g. 
Removed : related to internal audit findings and changes compared to the previous ICAAP 
Added : credit concentration risk); those factors not taken into account by the Pillar 1 framework (e.g. 
Removed : report).  
Added : interest rate risk in the banking book, business and strategic risk); and factors external to the 
Removed : II. ICAAP Executive Summary  
Added : bank (e.g. business cycle effects ). A further important aspect of Pillar 2 is the assessment of 
Removed : 11. It is important that the executive summary of the ICAAP document produced by each 
Added : compliance with the minimum standards and disclosure requirements of the more advanced 
Removed : bank should explain the views of Senior Management and the Board on the suitability of the 
Added : methods in Pillar 1. The Central Bank  will ensure that these requirements are being met, 
Removed : bank’s capital to cover the risks faced by the bank in light of its risk profile, its risk appetite and 
Added : both as qualifyin g criteria and on a continuing basis. The quality of risk management will also 
Removed : its future business plans. These views must be supported by key quantitative results including 
Added : be considered and any shortcoming may warrant a capital add -on by the bank or by the 
Removed : the current and expected capital position of the bank under various economic conditions 
Added : Central Bank . 
Removed : including stressed circumstances. It should also provide a clear analysis of the drivers of 
Added :  
Removed : capital consumption, incl uding Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks and stress testing. The conclusion 
Added : IV. Four key principles of supervisory review  
Removed : should be unambiguous, forward -looking and consider the uncertainty of the business and 
Added :  
Removed : economic conditions.  
Added : 12. The Central Bank  has followed the international standards23 set out by the BCBS and 
Removed : 12. More specifically, the executive summary of the ICAAP report should contain th e 
Added : identified four key principles of supervisory review.  
Removed : following elements:  
Added : Principle 1: Banks must have a process for assessing their overall capital 
Removed : (i) The main findings of the ICAAP;  
Added : adequacy in relation to their risk profile and a strategy for maintaining thei r 
Removed : (ii) A brief description of the ICAAP governance framework covering the 
Added : capital levels.  
Removed : stakeholders, the assessment process, the challenging process and the 
Added : 13. Banks must be able to demonstrate that the decided minimum capital levels are well 
Removed : approval process;  
Added : founded and that these levels are consistent with their overall risk profile and current 
Removed : (iii) A brief presentation of the bank’s structure, subsidiaries, businesses, material 
Added : operating environment. In assessing capital adequacy, bank managem ent needs to be 
Removed : risks, risk appetite, and risk mitigating actions, where applicable;  
Added :                                                 
Removed : (iv) A description of the current capital position of the bank showing the allocation of 
Added : 23 BCBS128 and BCBS157   
Removed : capital per risk type, covering Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 risks;  
Added : 157  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : (v) Each b ank should complete the ICAAP Executive Summary Table (Table 3) as  
Added : mindful of the particular stage of the business cycle in which the bank is operating. Rigorous 
Removed : 152  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : forward -looking stress testing that identifies possible events or changes in market conditions 
Removed : indicated in Appendix 2 of this document;  
Added : that could adversely affect the bank must be perfo rmed. Bank management clearly bears 
Removed : (vi) A description of the current capital composition of the bank against minimum 
Added : the responsibility for ensuring that the bank has adequate capital to support its risks.  
Removed : capital requirements covering at least CET1, AT1, and Tier 2 capital r atios;  
Added : 14. The seven main features of a rigorous process are as follows:  
Removed : (vii) A forward -looking analysis of the budgeted capital position of the bank, based 
Added : i. Active board and senior management oversight;  
Removed : on the bank’s expected business plan over the next three (3) years, reflecting 
Added : ii. Appropriate policies, methodologies for assessment of capital needs, procedures 
Removed : the current, and expected economic conditions. This needs to cover expected 
Added : and limits;  
Removed : dividend distri bution;  
Added : iii. Sound  capital assessment;  
Removed : (viii) An analysis of the capital position and capital ratios under several stress 
Added : iv. Comprehensive and timely identification, measurement, mitigation, controlling, 
Removed : scenarios, the analysis of the stress scenarios should include the intended risk 
Added : monitoring and reporting of risks;  
Removed : mitigation actions;  
Added : v. Appropriate management information systems (M IS) at the business and firm -wide 
Removed : (ix) An assessment of the adequacy of the bank’s risk management processes 
Added : level;  
Removed : including critical judgment on the areas that need improvement; and  
Added : vi. Comprehensive internal controls;  
Removed : (x) A conclusion of the ICAAP addressing the suitability of the capital to cover the 
Added : vii. For the completion of ICAAP, regulatory requirements (Pillar I) is required as the 
Removed : bank’s current and expected risks.  
Added : first step of computation.  
Removed : 13. Appendix 3.4 lists further information and documentation that is require d to accompany 
Added :  
Removed : a bank’s ICAAP report.  
Added : It should also be noted that under  no circumstances could Pillar I and Pillar II be netted 
Removed : III. ICAAP Governance  
Added : against each other. They are both separate requirements.  
Removed : 14. Given the critical and major role of the ICAAP in banks’ sustainability and strategy, the 
Added :  
Removed : Board of Directors is required to approve the ICAAP. The ICAAP should be subject to an 
Added : A. Board and Senior Management Oversight  
Removed : effective decision -makin g process, by which the assumptions, projections, and conclusions 
Added :  
Removed : are thoroughly discussed, analysed, and challenged at several levels in the organisation 
Added : 15. It is the responsibility of the Board of D irectors and senior management to define the 
Removed : including (i) the relevant committees of subject matter experts, (ii) Senior Management, and 
Added : bank’s risk appetite and to ensure that the bank’s risk management framework includes 
Removed : (iii) th e Board.  
Added : detailed policies and methodologies that set specific firm -wide prudential limits on the bank’s 
Removed : 15. The Board has ultimate ownership and responsibility of the ICAAP. It is required to 
Added : activities, which are consistent with its risk taking appetite and capacity. In order to determine 
Removed : approve an ICAAP on a yearly basis. The Board is also expected to approve the ICAAP 
Added : the overall risk appetite,  the board and senior management must first have an understanding 
Removed : governance framework with a clear and transparent assignment of responsibilitie s, adhering 
Added : of risk exposures on a firm -wide basis. To achieve this understanding, senior management 
Removed : to the segregation of functions, as described in Refer to Appendix 3.1. The governance 
Added : must bring together the perspectives of the key business and control functions. In order to 
Removed : framework should ensure that the ICAAP is an integral part of the bank’s management process 
Added : develop a n integrated firm -wide perspective on risk, senior management must overcome 
Removed : and decision -making. The ICAAP governance framework should includ e a clear approach to 
Added : organisational silos between business lines and share information on market developments, 
Removed : the regular internal review and validation by the appropriate functions of the bank.  
Added : risks and risk mitigation techniques. Senior management must establish a risk management 
Removed : 16. The policy framework should be approved by the Board. Senior Management has to 
Added : process that is not limited to credit, market, liquidity and operational risks, but incorporates 
Removed : implement the framework via effective procedures and systems. The fram ework must include 
Added : all material risks. This includes reputational, legal, anti -money laundering, conduct risk and 
Removed : measures reflected in the ICAAP report applied in day -to-day business and supported by 
Added : strategic risks, as well as risks that do not appear to be signif icant in isolation, but when 
Removed : suitable MIS at appropriate frequencies. A key aspect of this requirement is the “Use Test” 
Added : combined with other risks could lead to material losses. The analysis of a bank’s current and 
Removed : principle covered in the next section.  The risk framework  has to be applied across the 
Added : future capital requirements in relation to its strategic objectives is a vital element of the 
Removed : organisation.  
Added : strategic planning process. The strateg ic plan must clearly outline the bank’s capital needs, 
Removed : IV. ICAAP Methodology, Scope and Use Test  
Added : anticipated capital depletion expenditures, minimum internally assessed required capital 
Removed : Methodology  
Added : level, and external capital sources. Senior management and the board must view capital 
Removed : 17. The ICAAP is an ongoing process.  On an annual basis, every bank is required to 
Added : planning as a crucial ele ment in being able to achieve its desired strategic objectives.  
Removed : submit a document outlining the outcome of the ICAAP to the Central Bank, usually referred 
Added : 16. The board of directors and senior management must possess sufficient knowledge 
Removed : to as its ICAAP document or report. The ICAAP supplements the Pillar  1 minimum regulatory 
Added : of all major business lines to ensure that appropriate policies, controls and risk monitoring 
Removed : capital requirements by (i) identifying risks that are not addressed or not fully addressed 
Added : systems are effecti ve. They must have the necessary expertise to understand the capital 
Removed : through Pillar  1 regulations, referred to as Pillar 2 risks, and (ii) determining a level of capital 
Added : markets activities in which the bank is involved – such as securitisation and off -balance sheet 
Removed : commensurate with the level of risk. The Central Bank requires each bank to adopt a Pillar  1  
Added : activities – and the associated risks. The board and senior management must remain 
Removed : 153  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : informed  on an on -going basis about these risks as financial markets, risk management 
Removed : plus approach. According to this, the bank’s total capital requirements include the minimum 
Added : practices and the bank’s activities evolve. In addition, the board and senior management 
Removed : Pillar 1 regulatory capital require ments, plus the capital required to cover Pillar 2 risks. As a 
Added : must ensure that accountability and lines of authority are clearly defined .  
Removed : result, the ICAAP should result in additional capital requirements specific to each bank’s 
Added : 17. With respect  to new or complex products and activities, senior management must 
Removed : business model.  
Added : understand the underlying assumptions regarding business models, valuation and risk 
Removed : 18. Board and Senior Management are responsible to deliver a comprehensive, effective, 
Added : management practices. In addition, senior management must evaluate the potential risk 
Removed : and accurate assessment of capital adequacy. Each bank is consequently required to conduct 
Added : exposure if those a ssumptions fail.   
Removed : an ICAAP supported by appropriate methods and procedures to ensure that adequate capital 
Added : 158  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : covers all material risks. Each bank should adopt progressively more sophistica ted 
Added : 18. Before embarking on new activities or introducing products new to the bank, the 
Removed : approaches in measuring risks to keep up with the business model evolvement, the risk profile, 
Added : board and senior management must identify and review the changes in firm -wide risks 
Removed : size of the bank, and appropriate market practice. The key objective is for each bank to be 
Added : arising from these potential new products or activities and ensure that the  infrastructure and 
Removed : transparent and demonstrate the relevance of the approach taken i n relation to the nature of 
Added : internal controls necessary to manage the related risks are in place. In this review, a bank 
Removed : their activities and risk profile to the Board and the Central Bank.  
Added : must also consider and address the possible difficulty in valuing the new products and how 
Removed : 19. The frequency of reporting to the Board is expected to be at least quarterly, but, 
Added : they might perform in a stressed economic environmen t. It is also the responsibility of the 
Removed : depending on the size, complexity, business model, risk types of the institu tion, and the market 
Added : banks to assess prudential and market conduct risks when reviewing new products or 
Removed : environment, reporting might need to be more frequent to ensure timely management actions. 
Added : activities.  
Removed : The quarterly reporting should comprise the internal calculation of the capital ratios (Pillar 1 
Added : 19. A bank’s risk function and its Chief Risk Officer (CRO) or equivalent position must be 
Removed : and Pillar 2 under business -as-usual (BAU) and under stress scenarios), which includes 
Added : independent of the individual busi ness lines and report directly to the bank’s Board of 
Removed : determining the surplus/ shortfall of capital.  Stress scenarios and internal forecasts only need 
Added : Directors. In addition, the risk function must highlight to senior management and the board 
Removed : to be updated on a quarterly basis, if required.  Nevertheless, the ICAAP reporting to the 
Added : risk management concerns, such as risk concentrations, violations of risk appetite limits as 
Removed : Central Bank remains an ann ual exercise. However, if the quarterly results deviate significantly 
Added : well as violation s of minimum internally set capital requirements.  
Removed : compared to the results of the ICAAP report as submitted to the Central Bank, then the bank 
Added :  
Removed : should inform the Central Bank of the updated capital plan (including reasons for the 
Added : B. Appropriate policies, procedures and limits  
Removed : deviatio ns, capital ratios and mitigation actions).  
Added :  
Removed : 20. The ICAAP should be supported by robust methodologies and data. All models used 
Added : 20. Firm-wide risk management programmes must include detailed policies that set 
Removed : directly or indirectly in the ICAAP should follow the bank’s model management framework, in 
Added : specific firm -wide prudential limits on the principal risks relevant to a bank’s ac tivities. 
Removed : compliance with the Central Bank Standar ds and Guidance. The data employed in the ICAAP 
Added : Additionally, a bank must have a clearly defined risk appetite for market conduct risk (non -
Removed : should be comprehensive, reliable, follow rigorous quality checks, and control mechanisms.  
Added : prudential risks). A bank’s policies and procedures must provide specific guidance for the 
Removed : Scope  
Added : implementation of broad business strategies and must establish,  where appropriate, internal 
Removed : 21. Each bank is expected to ensure the effectiveness and consistency of the ICAAP at 
Added : limits for the various types of risk to which the bank may be exposed. These limits must 
Removed : each level, with a special focus on the group level for local banks. The ICAAP of these banks 
Added : consider the bank’s role in the financial system and be defined in relation to the bank’s 
Removed : is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand -alone basis, at regulatory 
Added : capital, total assets, and earnings or, where ad equate measures exist, its overall risk level.  
Removed : consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should primarily evaluate the 
Added : 21. A bank’s policies, procedures and limits must:  
Removed : capital requirement and capital adequacy of the bank at group level, following the regulatory 
Added : i. Provide for adequate and timely identification, measurement, monitoring, control 
Removed : consolidation.  However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the 
Added : and mitigation of the risks (prudential and market conduct risks) posed by its 
Removed : group structure of the bank. The group structure must be analysed from diffe rent perspectives. 
Added : lending, investing, trading, securitisation, off -balance sheet, fiduciary and other 
Removed : To be able to effectively assess and maintain capital adequacy across entities, strategies, risk 
Added : significant activities at the business line and firm wide levels;  
Removed : management processes, decision -making, methodologies, and assumptions applied should 
Added : ii. Ensure that the economic substance of a bank’s risk exposures, including 
Removed : be coherent across the entire group. Identified additio nal risks may increase the capital 
Added : reputational risk and valuation unc ertainty, are fully recognised and incorporated 
Removed : requirement on group level accordingly.  
Added : into the bank’s risk management processes;  
Removed : 22. Capital transferability within the group should be assessed conservatively and 
Added : iii. Be consistent with the bank’s stated requirements and objectives, as well as its 
Removed : cautiously, which should be considered in the ICAAP. Each bank should have a process to 
Added : overall financial strength;  
Removed : ensure capital  transferability that addresses any restrictions on the management's ability to 
Added : iv. Clearly define accountability and lines of authority acr oss the bank’s various 
Removed : transfer or allocate capital into or out of the bank's subsidiaries (for example contractual, 
Added : business activities, and ensure there is a clear separation between business lines 
Removed : commercial, regulatory, or statutory/legal restrictions that may apply). The capit al allocation or 
Added : and the risk management function;  
Removed : distribution and the approval process between the bank’s holding company (group/parent) and 
Added : v. Escalate and address breaches of internal position limits;  
Removed : the subsidiaries in the banking group should be well defined. The analysis should also consider 
Added : vi. Provide for the review of new businesses and products by bringing together all 
Removed : risks arising from structural foreign currency posi tions relating to assets, liabilities, and equity.  
Added : relevant risk management, control and business lines to ensure that the bank is 
Removed : 23. A bank that has domestic or foreign subsidiaries or branches is expected to evaluate 
Added : able to manage and control the activity prior to it being initiated; and  
Removed : the difference between the ICAAP determined for the bank (including its subsidiaries) and the  
Added : vii. Include a schedule and process for reviewing the policies, procedures and limits 
Removed : 154  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : and for updating them as appropriate.  
Removed : ICAAP at solo level (witho ut subsidiaries). Therefore, the bank should identify any potential 
Added :  
Removed : and additional risks both at consolidated group level and at solo bank level. The analysis 
Added : C. Sound capital assessment  
Removed : should also address international operations that have jurisdictional capital requirements or 
Added :  
Removed : restrictions.  
Added : 22. Fundamental elements of sound capital assessment include:  
Removed : 24. Additional risks may also arise from entities that are not consolidated under Pillar 1, 
Added : i. Policies, procedures and methodologies designed to ensure that the bank 
Removed : e.g. investments in commercial subsidiaries, including Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV), and 
Added : identifies, measures, and reports all material risks;  
Removed : insurance companies. Each bank should evaluate whether the require d Pillar 1 capital 
Added : ii. A proce ss that relates capital to the level of risk;   
Removed : adequately covers all risks arising from those entities. The evaluation should consider all risk 
Added : 159  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : types, including credit risk, reputational risk, and step -in risk, etc. The analysis should not be 
Added : iii. A process that states capital adequacy requirements (i.e. minimum thresholds for 
Removed : limited to branches and subsidiaries but should also consider affiliates, if material. Such 
Added : CAR ratio) with respect to risk, taking account of the bank’s strategic focus and 
Removed : analysis should not be limited to local banks only, also foreign banks operating in the UAE 
Added : business plan; and  
Removed : should identify and analyse all their dependencies on parent companies through centralised 
Added : iv. A process of internal contro ls, reviews and audit s to ensure the integrity of the 
Removed : risk management/ share d services etc.  
Added : overall management process.  
Removed : Use Test  
Added :  
Removed : 25. The ICAAP and the bank’s business strategy form a feedback process. While the 
Added : D. Comprehensive assessment of risks  
Removed : ICAAP has to reflect the bank’s business strategy, and business decisions. The bank should 
Added :  
Removed : implement a formal process to analyse whether the outcomes of the ICAAP influence the 
Added : 23. All material risks faced by the bank must be addressed in the capital assessment 
Removed : business strategy. Banks should determine which additional capital requirements under Pillar 
Added : process. While the Central Bank  recognises that not all risks can be measured precisely, a 
Removed : 1 and Pillar 2 in business as usual BAU and stress scenarios on the top of the minimum 
Added : process must be developed to estimate risks. Therefore, the following risk exposures, which 
Removed : regulatory requirements would be adequate and whethe r the bank’s risk appetite is adequate 
Added : by no means constitute a comprehensive list of all risks, must be considered : 
Removed : or requires to be adjusted accordingly.  The formal feedback process should also include links 
Added : 24. Credit risk : Banks must have methodologies that ena ble them to assess the credit 
Removed : to the banks’ business decisions, risk management process (e.g. using the ICAAP 
Added : risk involved in exposures to individual borrowers or counterparties as well as at the portfolio 
Removed : methodologies, results in the approval pro cess, limit setting, strategic processes, such as 
Added : level. For banks, the credit review assessment of capital adequacy, at a minimum, must 
Removed : capital planning or budgeting, and performance measurement).  For that purpose, the Board 
Added : cover four areas: risk rating systems, por tfolio analysis/aggregation, securitisation/complex 
Removed : and Senior Management should lead and approve the assumptions, methodology, framework, 
Added : credit derivatives, and large exposures and risk concentrations.  
Removed : and outcome of the ICAAP. The  usage of the ICAAP within the organisation and its alignment 
Added : 25. Internal risk ratings are an important tool in monitoring credit risk. Internal risk ratings 
Removed : with strategic decisions is referred to as the ‘Use Test’.  
Added : must be adequate to support the identification  and measurement of risk from all credit 
Removed : 26. The ICAAP should have an interactive relationship with other key processes within the 
Added : exposures, and must be integrated into a banks’ overall analysis of credit risk and capital 
Removed : bank, including but not limited to, (i) business strategies, (ii) financial budgeting, (iii) risk 
Added : adequacy. The ratings system must provide detailed ratings for all assets, not only for watch 
Removed : management, (iv)  risk appetite setting, and (v) stress tests. Metrics related to capital allocation 
Added : list or for problem assets. A ppropriateness of loan loss reserves must be included in the 
Removed : and capital consumption should be included in the banks’ risk appetite. Conversely, the metrics 
Added : credit risk assessment for capital adequacy.  
Removed : pertaining to business management and to risk management should take into consideration 
Added : 26. The analysis of credit risk must adequately identify any weaknesses at the portfolio 
Removed : the capital plan.  
Added : level, including any concentrations of risk. It must also adequat ely take into consideration 
Removed : 27. Conceptually, this circular process should be articulated according to the following 
Added : the risks involved in managing credit concentrations and other portfolio issues through such 
Removed : illustration and guidance. Each bank should design its own iterative process : 
Added : mechanisms as securitisation programmes and complex credit derivatives.  
Removed : (i) The Board, Senior Management and the business lines should provide their 
Added : 27. Operational risk : The failure to properly manage operational r isk can result in a 
Removed : business plan and budget to construct the ICAAP;  
Added : misstatement of a bank’s risk/return profile and expose the bank to significant losses.  
Removed : (ii) The risk management function should analyse the feasibility and the risks 
Added : 28. A bank must develop a framework for managing operational risk (including cyber risk) 
Removed : associated to such business plan;  
Added : and evaluate the adequacy of capital given this framework. The  framework must cover the 
Removed : (iii) The ICAAP should result in an estimation of the adequate level of capital given 
Added : bank’s appetite and tolerance for operational risk, as specified through the policies for 
Removed : the business and risk assumptions.  This should be approved by the Board and 
Added : managing this risk, including the extent and manner in which operational risk is transferred 
Removed : by Senior Management; and  
Added : outside the bank. It must also include policies  outlining the bank’s approach to identifying, 
Removed : (iv) In return, the ICAAP and capital requirements should feed back to the business 
Added : assessing, monitoring and controlling/mitigating the risk.  
Removed : lines and the risk  management function in order to steer the strategy of the bank.  
Added : 29. Market risk : Banks must have methodologies that enable them to assess and 
Removed : 28. The stakeholders should regularly interact with each other during the production of the 
Added : actively manage all market risks, wherever they arise, at position, desk, bu siness line and 
Removed : ICAAP in order to (i) obtain consistent forward -looking capital projections, and (ii) use capital  
Added : firm-wide level. For banks, their assessment of internal capital adequacy for market risk, at 
Removed : 155  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : a minimum, must be based on stress testing, including an assessment of concentration risk 
Removed : proje ctions consistently in their own decision -making. The stakeholders should include, but not 
Added : and the assessment of illiquidity under stressful market  scenarios, although all firms’ 
Removed : be limited to, the Board, Senior Management, the business lines, the risk management 
Added : assessments must include stress testing appropriate to their trading activity.  
Removed : function, and the finance function.  
Added : 30. A bank must demonstrate that it has enough capital to not only meet the minimum 
Removed : 29. Each bank should demonstrate its appropriate  usage of the ICAAP via the production 
Added : capital requirements but also to withstand a range of severe but plausible market shocks. In 
Removed : of thorough documentation, reporting covering the process, methodology, decision -making for 
Added : particular, it must factor in, where appropriate:  
Removed : capital allocation, and strategy. Each bank should document the overall ICAAP design, 
Added : i. Illiquidity of prices;  
Removed : including key elements and the mechanis m by which they interact with each other. Such 
Added : ii. Concentrated positions (in relation to market turnover);  
Removed : components should include, but not be limited to, the business strategies, risk appetite 
Added : iii. One-way markets;  
Removed : statement, risk measurement methods, stress tests programme, and reporting across the 
Added : iv. Non-linear products/deep out -of-the money positions;  
Removed : Group.  
Added : v. Events and jumps -to-defaults;  
Removed : 30. Regular reporting should be  constructed to measure and monitor Pillar 2 risks in 
Added : vi. Significant shifts in correlations;   
Removed : addition to the annual ICAAP report exercise. Adequate metrics and associated limits should 
Added : 160  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : be designed in relation to the bank’s size and complexity.  
Added :  
Removed : 31. The Central Bank shall evaluate evidence that the b ank has embraced the process for 
Added : 31. The stress tests applied by a bank for market risk and, in particular, the calibration of 
Removed : business rather than regulatory reasons. Evidence should be provided that the management 
Added : those tests (e.g. the parameters of the shocks or types of events considered) must be 
Removed : has, through the ICAAP, made the business more efficient or less risky.  
Added : reconciled back to a cle ar statement setting out the premise upon which the bank’s internal 
Removed : V. Capital Planning  
Added : capital assessment is based (e.g. ensuring there is adequate capital to manage the traded 
Removed : 32. Each bank should operate above the minimum ca pital requirements set by the Central 
Added : portfolios within stated limits through what may be a prolonged period of market stress and 
Removed : Bank. Each bank should have a capital plan approved by the Board. The objective of capital 
Added : illiquidity, or that there is adequate capital to ensure that, over a given time horizon to a 
Removed : planning is to ensure that:  
Added : specified confidence level, all positions can be liquidated or the risk hedged in an orderly 
Removed : (i) Each bank is compliant with minimum regulatory requirements;  
Added : fashion). The market shocks applied in the tests must reflect the nature of  portfolios and the 
Removed : (ii) The bank is viable and able to endure external economic changes; and  
Added : time it could take to hedge out or manage risks under severe market conditions.  
Removed : (iii) Each bank’s capital is calibrated to its risk profile in order to absorb unexpected 
Added : 32. Concentration risk  must be pro -actively managed and assessed by firms and 
Removed : losses through time, including periods of economic downturn.  
Added : concentrated positions must be routinely reported to senior management.  
Removed : 33. The ICAAP should be designed as a tool to adequately support these objectives. E ach 
Added : 33. Banks must  demonstrate how they combine their risk measurement approaches to 
Removed : bank’s management is expected to develop and maintain an appropriate strategy that ensure 
Added : arrive at the overall internal capital for market risk.  
Removed : the level of capital and the process to estimate such level should be commensurate with the 
Added : 34. Interest rate risk in the banking book : The measurement process must include all 
Removed : nature, scope, scale, size, complexity, and risks of each bank.  
Added : material interest rate positions of the bank and con sider all relevant repricing and maturity 
Removed : 34. The IC AAP should be forward -looking taking into account both internal and external 
Added : data, including modelling maturity assumptions. Such information will generally include 
Removed : drivers over a period covering three (3) to five (5) years. The capital planning should take into 
Added : current balance and contractual rate of interest associated with the instruments and 
Removed : account the bank’s business plan, its strategic development and the economic envi ronment.  
Added : portfolios, principal payments, interest reset dates, maturities, the rate index used for 
Removed : 35. The multi -year capital forecast should be assessed and calibrated through two 
Added : repricing, and contractual interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable -rate items. The system 
Removed : perspectives:  
Added : must also have well -documented assumptions and techniques.  
Removed : (i) Pillar  1: The bank’s ability to fulfil all of its capital -related regulatory, supervisory 
Added : 35. Regardless of the type and level of complexity of the measurement system used, 
Removed : requirements, and demands; and  
Added : bank management must ensure the adequacy and completeness of the system. Because 
Removed : (ii) Pillar  2: The bank’s ability to co pe with capital demands beyond that of the 
Added : the quality and reliability of the measurement system is largely dependent on the various 
Removed : regulatory requirements, in accordance to its risk profile.  
Added : assumptions used in the model which will be checked by t he Central Bank  for reasonability, 
Removed : 36. Both perspectives should be function of the bank’s business plan. In addition, the 
Added : management must give particular attention to these items.  
Removed : second perspective should incorporate a more granular, specific, and a ccurate measurement 
Added : 36. Liquidity risk : Liquidity is crucial to the ongoing viability of any banking organisation. 
Removed : of risks. Both perspectives should take into account the current, expected economic 
Added : Banks’ capital positions can have an effect on their ability to obtain l iquidity, especially in a 
Removed : environment, and consider the occurrence of stressed events.  
Added : crisis. Each bank must have adequate systems for measuring, monitoring and controlling 
Removed : 37. If the bank identifies a shortfall in capital pertaining to either Pillar 1 or Pillar 2. It  is  
Added : liquidity risk. Banks must evaluate the adequacy of capital given their own liquidity profile 
Removed : 156  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : and the liquidity of the markets in which they op erate. Please refer to the Regulation 
Removed : expected to consider measures to maintain adequate capitalisation, reverse the trend, review 
Added : regarding Liquidity Risk Circular No: 33/2015  
Removed : its strategy, and risk appetite.  
Added : 37. Other risks : Although the Central Bank  recognises that ‘other’ risks, such as 
Removed : 38. For each internal stress test scenario for capital planning purposes, each bank is 
Added : reputational, strategic and anti -money laundering, are not easily measurable, it expects 
Removed : expected to consider credible, quantifiable  management actions that the bank could practically 
Added : banks  to further develop techniques for managing all aspects of these risks.  
Removed : take to mitigate any capital impact of stress scenarios. Such mitigating actions for ICAAP 
Added :  
Removed : stress scenarios may differ from actions related to recovery planning. The timing and execution 
Added : E. Monitoring and reporting  
Removed : of these manageme nt actions should be supported by appropriate trigger points of the bank’s 
Added :  
Removed : capital position, which may be informed by their internal risk appetite for capital adequacy. 
Added : 38. The bank must establish an adequate system for monitoring and reporting risk 
Removed : When the bank’s capital ratios fall below its internal risk appetite, it is expected th at the bank 
Added : exposures and assessing how the bank’s changing risk profile affects the need for capital. 
Removed : is able to execute the necessary measures, i.e. the bank should explain how the capital 
Added : The bank’s senior management or board of directors must, on a regular basis, receive 
Removed : adequacy would be ensured/ restored (e.g. via a capital contingency plan). In assessing the 
Added : reports on the bank’s risk profile and capital needs. These reports must allow senior 
Removed : effectiveness of a management action, each bank should also cons ider the perceived 
Added : management to:  
Removed : reputational impact (e.g. as viewed by the market, customers, government etc.) on taking such 
Added : i. Evaluate the level and trend of material risks and their effect on capital levels;  
Removed : an action in a stress. The results should be disclosed in the ICAAP report with and without 
Added : ii. Evaluate the sensitivity and reasonableness of key assumptions used in the 
Removed : those management actions that have been approved by  the bank’s Board.  
Added : capital assessment measurement system;  
Removed : 39. If the bank plans the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights issues, 
Added : iii. Determine whether the bank holds sufficient capital against the various risks and 
Removed : reduction in the equity, etc.), the bank may consider the capital increase in its capital planning. 
Added : is in compliance with established internal capital adequacy requirements; and  
Removed : The bank should only consider capital increase s that have obtained Senior Management 
Added : iv. Assess its future capital requirements based on the bank’s reported risk profile (3 
Removed : approval and form part of the bank’s official capital plan and that have been discussed with the 
Added : to 5 years) and make necessary adjustments to the bank’s strategic plan  
Removed : Central Bank. A bank that considers capital increases in it capital planning has to perform an 
Added : 161  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : additional stress test sc enario to analyse the impact if the capital increase does not materialise.  
Added : accordingly as well as the effect of any anticipated cha nges to regulatory 
Removed : 40. The following elements should be included in the ICAAP report or related appendix:  
Added : requirements.  
Removed : (i) Assumptions related to business developments over the forecasted period;  
Added :  
Removed : (ii) Assumptions related to th e economic environment over the forecasted period;  
Added : 39. A bank’s MIS must provide the board and senior management in a clear and concise 
Removed : (iii) Summary of historic capital base, aggregate RWAs, and CAR ratios for a 
Added : manner with timely and relevant information concerning their bank’ risk profile. This 
Removed : minimum of five (5) years;  
Added : information must include all risk exposures, including those that are off -balance sheet. 
Removed : (iv) Disclosure of the following forecasted financial projections:  
Added : Management must understand the assumptions behind and limitations inherent in specific 
Removed : (v) Detailed balance sheet;  
Added : risk measures.  
Removed : (vi) Detailed statement of  profit and loss;  
Added : 40. The key elements necessary for the aggregation of risks are an appropriate 
Removed : (vii) Break down of Capital base into its regulatory components;  
Added : infrastructure and MIS that (i) allow for the  aggregation of exposures and risk measures 
Removed : (viii) Break down of Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) components;  
Added : across business lines and (ii) support customised identification of concentrations and 
Removed : (ix) Significant ratios (e.g. CET  1, Tier  1, and CAR);  
Added : emerging risks. MIS developed to achieve this objective must support the ability to evaluate 
Removed : (x) A method to calibrate capital needs to the current and expected levels of risks, 
Added : the impact of various types of e conomic and financial shocks that affect the whole bank. 
Removed : in coherence with the bank’s risk appetite, business plan, and strategy;  
Added : Further, a bank’s systems must be flexible enough to incorporate hedging and other risk 
Removed : (xi) It should include the likely future constraints on the availability and the use of 
Added : mitigation actions to be carried out on a firm -wide basis while taking into account the various 
Removed : capital; and  
Added : related basis r isks. 
Removed : (xii) Any f uture regulatory and accounting changes that can potentially impact such 
Added : 41. To enable proactive management of risk, the board and senior management need to 
Removed : plan.  
Added : ensure that MIS is capable of providing regular, accurate and timely information on the 
Removed : 41. Banks are required to fulfill internal risk appetite requirements in the bank’s self -
Added : bank’s aggregate risk profile, as well as the main assumptions used for risk aggre gation. MIS 
Removed : assessment of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 minimum regulatory capital requirements. Banks should  
Added : must be adaptable and responsive to changes in the bank’s underlying risk assumptions and 
Removed : 157  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : must incorporate multiple perspectives of risk exposure to account for uncertainties in risk 
Removed : fulfill the minimum capital requirements plus capital buffer requirements under business as 
Added : measurement. In addition, it must be sufficiently flexible so  that the bank can generate 
Removed : usual (BAU) conditions. Under stress testing (ST) banks should fulfill the minimum capital 
Added : forward -looking bank -wide scenario analyses that capture management’s interpretation of 
Removed : requirements without the requirement to meet buffer requirements.  
Added : evolving market conditions and stressed conditions. Third -party inputs or other tools used 
Removed : 42. The capit al planning should not be limited to risk -based capital ratios but should also 
Added : within MIS (e.g. credit ratings, risk measures, m odels) must be subject to initial and ongoing 
Removed : consider the leverage ratio of the bank. Bank should analyse and consider unaccounted 
Added : validation.  
Removed : foreseeable events in the capital plan, e.g. regulatory changes like the revised standardis ed 
Added : 42. Banks are required that their MIS must be capable of capturing limit breaches and 
Removed : approaches for credit, market and operational risk.  
Added : there must be procedures in place to promptly report such breaches to senior management, 
Removed : VI. Material Risks  
Added : as well as to ensure that a ppropriate follow -up actions are taken. For instance, similar 
Removed : 43. As a part of its risk management practices, each bank is responsible for implementing 
Added : exposures must be aggregated across business platforms (including the banking and trading 
Removed : a regular process to identify, measure, report, monitor, and mitigate risks. Such risk 
Added : books) to determine whether there is a concentration or a breach of an internal position limit.  
Removed : management process should be used as direct input into the calibration of capital demand to 
Added :  
Removed : cover both Pillar 1 and Pillar  2 risks. The framework supporting the estimation of capital 
Added : F. Internal control review  
Removed : consumption for each risk type should approved by Senior Management and the Board.  
Added :  
Removed : 44. All risks identified as material risks are expected to be addressed in the ICAAP. Risk 
Added : 43. The bank’s internal control structure is essential to the capital assessment process. 
Removed : materiality should depend on each bank’s business model and risk profile. The scope of such 
Added : Effective control of the capital assessment process includes an independent review and, 
Removed : risk identification should cover the entire group, including all branches and subsidiaries of the 
Added : where appropriate, the involvement of internal and extern al audit. The bank’s board of 
Removed : bank. The Central Bank considers credit concentration risk and interest rate risk in the banking 
Added : directors has a responsibility to ensure that management establishes a system for assessing 
Removed : book (IRRBB) as defined in this Guidance, as material risks. Given the growing risk universe 
Added : the various risks, develops a system to relate risk to the bank’s capital level, and establishes 
Removed : outside of traditional Pillar  1 risks, each ba nk must define, update, and review the applicable 
Added : a method for monitoring compliance wi th internal policies. The board must regularly verify 
Removed : ICAAP risks on a continuous basis (e.g. quarterly).  
Added : whether its system of internal controls is adequate to ensure well -ordered and prudent 
Removed : 45. The identification of risks should distinguish between direct risks and indirect risks.  
Added : conduct of business.  
Removed : Direct risks are explicit and commonly identifiable risks, such a s the credit risk associated with 
Added : 44. Risk management processes must be frequently monitored and tested by 
Removed : facility underwriting.  Indirect risks are arising as second order consequences of direct risks 
Added : independent control areas  and internal, as well as external, auditors. The aim is to ensure 
Removed : and unforeseen events. For instance, an increase in fraud and cyber -attacks as a 
Added : that the information on which decisions are based is accurate so that processes fully reflect 
Removed : consequence of an economic downturn or a pand emic during which employees are forced to 
Added : management policies and that regular reporting, including the reporting of limit breaches and 
Removed : work from home. Other examples are the credit risk arising from derivatives during periods of 
Added : other exception -based reporting, is undertaken effectively. The risk management function of 
Removed : high market volatility or the increase in credit risk resulting from a drop in collateral values 
Added : banks must be independent of the business lines in order to ensure an adequate separation 
Removed : following a real estate  market crash.  
Added : of duties and to avoid conflicts of interest.  
Removed : 46. The identification of risks should be supported by a regular and structured process. An 
Added : 45. The purpose of periodic revie ws of the risk management process is to ensure its 
Removed : inventory of risks should be recorded for each business activity and each portfolio on a regular 
Added : integrity, accuracy, and reasonableness. Areas that the Central Bank  will review include:   
Removed : basis. In addition to the regular updates (i.e. at least  quarterly), it is expected to adjust the 
Added : 162  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : inventory whenever it no longer reflects the risks that are material, e.g. because a new product 
Added : i. Appropriateness of the bank’s capital assessment process given the nature, scope 
Removed : has been introduced or certain business activities have been expanded. This should support 
Added : and complexity of its activities;  
Removed : the production of ICAAP fr om one year to the next.  
Added : ii. Identification of large exposures and risk concentrations;  
Removed : 47. The measurement of risk should be transparent, documented, and supported by 
Added : iii. Accuracy and completeness of data inputs into the bank’s assessment process;  
Removed : subject -matter experts throughout the bank. Each expert function should contribute to its area 
Added : iv. Reasonableness and validity of scenarios used in the assessment process 
Removed : of expertise, in such way that the ICAAP is a reflection of a collective work substantiated by 
Added : (scenarios and modelling assumptions behind bank s’ response to those 
Removed : thorough analysis. Each dedicated risk team should provide a comprehensive assessment of 
Added : scenarios); and  
Removed : the risk drivers and materiality of the risk they manage.  
Added : v. Stress testing and analysis of assumptions and inputs together with the resultant 
Removed : 48. The estimation of the capital consumption associated with each risk should  be based 
Added : outputs.  
Removed : upon clear methodologies designed appropriately for each risk type. Each bank should identify 
Added : vi. Validation of the output (not only of the process) with proper benchmarking to 
Removed : the owner of such methodology either within the team responsible to manage risks or with a 
Added : peers and best practice.  
Removed : centralised team responsible for aggregating risk information  and to construct the ICAAP. 
Added :  
Removed : Ultimately, the process to identify, measure risks, and estimate the associated capital 
Added : Principle 2: The Central Bank  will review and evaluate banks’ internal capital 
Removed : consumption should be approved by Senior Management and the Board.  
Added : adequacy assessments and strategies, as well as their ability to monitor and 
Removed : 49. In the case of vendor models, this includes the expectation that such mo dels are not 
Added : ensure their compliance with regulatory capital ratios. The Central Bank  will 
Removed : expected to be imported mechanistically, but rather they are expected to be fully understood  
Added : take appropriate supervisory action if it is not satisfied with the result of this 
Removed : 158  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : process.  
Removed : by the bank and well suited for, and tailored to, its business and its risk profile.  
Added :  
Removed : 50. The identification of risks should result in distinct types:  
Added : 46. The Central Bank  will regularly review the process by which a bank assesses its 
Removed : (i) Pillar 1 risks that are not fully captured and that are covered by insufficient 
Added : capital adequacy, risk position, resulting minimum required capital levels, and quality of 
Removed : capital. For instance, the market risk capital consumption under Pillar 1 might 
Added : capital held. The Central Bank  will also evaluate the degree to which a bank has in place a 
Removed : not incorporate sufficient basis risk; and  
Added : sound internal process to assess capital adequacy. The emphasis of the review must be on 
Removed : (ii) Risks that are not captured at all as part of the Pillar  1 framework.  
Added : the quality of the bank’s risk management and controls with the Central Bank  setting the 
Removed : 51. Each bank should not develop separate methodologies for risk measurement, if those 
Added : minimum required capital. The periodic review can involve some combination of:  
Removed : are not employed for risk management. The Use Test assumes that the method and conclusion 
Added : i. On-site examinations or inspections;  
Removed : of the ICAAP should be coherent with the bank’s internal practices.  
Added : ii. Off-site review;  
Removed : 52. To ensure an adequate assessment of high quality, each bank should establish, and 
Added : iii. Discussions with bank management;  
Removed : implement an effective data quality framework, to deploy adequate processes, and control 
Added : iv. Review of work done by internal auditors and where appropriate external auditors;  
Removed : mechanisms to ensure the quality of data. The data quality framework should ensure rel iable 
Added : v. Periodic reporting; and  
Removed : risk information that supports sound decision -making, covers all relevant risk data, and data 
Added :  
Removed : quality dimensions.  
Added : 47. The substantial impact that errors in the methodology or assumptions of formal 
Removed : 53. The next sections contain explanations and expectations on certain risk types (e.g. 
Added : analyses can have on resulting capital requirements requires a detailed review by the Central 
Removed : Business Model Analysis (BMA) and strategic risk, In terest Rate Risk in the Banking Book, 
Added : Bank  of each bank’s internal analysis. The Central Bank  will have its own methodo logies to 
Removed : and Credit concentration risk).  
Added : benchmark the outcomes of the ICAAP and, if necessary, impose additional capital 
Removed : A. Business Model Analysis (BMA) and Strategic Risk  
Added : requirements.  
Removed : 54. Business model analysis embodies the risk that the bank has failed to structure its 
Added : Supervisory Review Process  
Removed : organisation and operations (expertise, systems, and processes) in a way that leads to 
Added :  
Removed : achieving its primary business and strategic objectives.  
Added : A. Review of adequacy of risk assessment  
Removed : 55. Strategic risks arise when the bank’s business model, organisation structure, 
Added :  
Removed : operations, and/or strategy are no longer adequate to deliver the objective of the bank  as 
Added : 48. The Central Bank  will assess the degree to which internal requirements and 
Removed : specified by the Board.  
Added : processes incorporate the full range of material risks faced by the bank. The Central Bank 
Removed : 56. The bank should conduct regular business model analysis (BMA) to assess its 
Added : will also review the adequacy of risk measures used in assessing internal capital adequacy 
Removed : business and strategic risks to determine:  
Added : and the extent t o which these risk measures are also used operationally in setting limits, 
Removed : (i) The ability of the bank’s current business model to deliver suitable results over 
Added : evaluating business line performance, and evaluating and controlling risks more generally. 
Removed : the following 12 months;  
Added : In addition, the Central Bank  will review the results of stress tests (including sensitivi ty 
Removed : (ii) The sustainability of the bank’s strategy and its ability to deliver suitable/ 
Added : analyses and scenario analyses) conducted by the banks and how these results relate to 
Removed : acceptable results over a forward -looking period of at least three (3) to five (5) 
Added : capital plans.  
Removed : years, based on the strategic plans and financial planning;  
Added :  
Removed : (iii) The sustainability and sufficient di versification of income over time (three (3) to 
Added :   
Removed : five (5) years). This analysis should consider the sources and levels of income 
Added : 163  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : and expenses; and  
Added : B. Assessment of capital adequacy  
Removed : (iv) The ability of the bank to deliver total financial data across the group and for 
Added :  
Removed : each of its key business unit s (includes forward -looking performance and 
Added : 49. The Central Bank  will review the bank’s processes to determine that:  
Removed : profitability).  
Added : i. Minimum capital requirements chosen are comprehe nsive and relevant to the 
Removed : 57. An effective BMA contains a through -the-cycle view of the sustainability of the business 
Added : current operating environment and the risk profile of the bank;  
Removed : model in its current state and against a projected view of the bank’s funding structure, return 
Added : ii. Minimum capital requirements are properly monitored and reviewed by senior 
Removed : on equity ( ROE), capital supply, and capital demand, the effect this has on the product, service 
Added : management; and  
Removed : pricing, and resource requirements. The business planning should be clear, aligned, and  
Added : iii. The composition of capital is appropriate for the nature and scale of the b ank’s 
Removed : 159  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : business.  
Removed : integrated with the bank’s strategy, governance, risk -appetite statement, recovery  plans, 
Added : 50. The Central Bank  will also consider the extent to which the bank has provided for 
Removed : internal controls, stress tests, and internal reporting (MIS).  
Added : unexpected events in setting its minimum capital requirements. This analysis must cover a 
Removed : 58. Each bank should elaborate on the linkage and consistency between their strategic 
Added : wide range of external conditions and scenarios, and the sophisticat ion of techniques and 
Removed : decisions, risk appetite, and the resources allocated for achieving those strategies. The bank 
Added : stress tests used must be commensurate with the bank’s activities.  
Removed : should a rticulate the frequency of monitoring and quantifying changes in its financial 
Added : C. Assessment of the control environment  
Removed : projections (e.g. balance sheet, profit and loss, and concentrations) regularly to verify that they 
Added :  
Removed : are consistent with the business model, risk appetite, and the achievement of  the bank’s 
Added : 51. The Central Bank will consider the quality of the bank’s management information 
Removed : strategic goals.  
Added : reporting and systems, the manner in which business risks and activities are aggregated, 
Removed : 59. An effective BMA enables banks to identify vulnerabilities at an early stage and assess 
Added : and management’s record in responding to emerging or changing risks.  
Removed : their ability to adapt to changes in their specific operating environment therefore helps to 
Added : 52. In all instances, the capital requirement at an individual bank must be determined 
Removed : promote the safety and soundness of banks. A w ell-designed and comprehensive BMA 
Added : according to the bank’s risk profile and adequacy of its risk management process and internal 
Removed : approach provides banks with the basis to understand, analyse, assess the sustainability of 
Added : controls. External factors such as business cycle effects and the macroeconomic 
Removed : their business models, enhance proactive, forward -looking operations, and strategy 
Added : environment must also be considered. Another consideration is the variability in a bank’s 
Removed : evaluation.  
Added : profitability in normal circumstances.  
Removed : 60. Each bank’s business model should be based on analyses and realistic assumptions 
Added : D. The Centra l Bank’s review of the regulatory framework  
Removed : (stress tests, scenario analyses, and driver analyses, etc.) about the effect of strategic choices 
Added :  
Removed : on financial and economic outcomes of operations performed. This will enable the bank and 
Added : 53. In order for certain internal methodologies (e.g. VaR), credit risk mitigation techniques 
Removed : the Central Bank to understand the nature of the business model and the inherent risks. Each 
Added : and asset securitisations to be recognised for regulatory capital purposes, banks will need 
Removed : bank should perform an analysis that involves identifying, challenging the dependency of 
Added : to meet a number of requireme nts, including risk management standards and disclosures. 
Removed : strategies on uncontrollable external factors, and assumptions (e.g. market interest rates, 
Added : In particular, banks will be required to disclose features of their internal methodologies used 
Removed : demand growth in the target customer markets, degree of competition in the markets, cost of 
Added : in calculating minimum capital requirements. As part of the supervisory review process, the 
Removed : entry, and compliance costs).  
Added : Central Ba nk will ensure that these conditions are met on an ongoing basis.  
Removed : 61. An effective BMA addresses the banks’ ability to produce aggregate financial data 
Added : 54. The Central Bank  regards this review of as an integral part of the supervisory review 
Removed : across the banking group as a whole, and the bank solo  level, for each of its main business 
Added : process under Principle 2.  
Removed : units and business lines. Moreover, to make the best use of this data and transform it into 
Added : 55. The Central Bank  will also perform a review of compliance with certain condi tions 
Removed : relevant inputs, banks need to develop and use analytical tools including stress tests, peer 
Added : and requirements set for standardised approaches.  
Removed : group assessments, profitability forecasts and analysis, and scenario analyses.  
Added :  
Removed : 62. The documentation provided in support of the business model should contain an 
Added : Principle 3: The Central Bank  expects banks to operate above the minimum 
Removed : overview of the business activities of the bank and an overview of the structure/organisational 
Added : regulatory capital ratios and may require banks to hold capital in excess of the 
Removed : details of the bank.  For example a  brief description of the business model, present financial 
Added : minimum.  
Removed : condition, any expected changes in the present business model, the expected future business 
Added :  
Removed : environment, business plans, and the projected financial condition for the following year.  
Added : 56. The Central Bank  will take appropriate action if it is not satisfied with the results of 
Removed : 63. The following  additional information and documentation should be referenced (if not 
Added : the bank’s own risk assessment and capital allocation or with the minimum capital levels as 
Removed : part of) the ICAAP report:  
Added : determined by the bank. The Central Bank  will add additional capital requirements where the 
Removed : (i) Bank’s strategic plan(s) with current -year, forward -looking forecasts, and 
Added : Central Bank  is not satisfied that all risks have been identified. Important to note is that banks 
Removed : underlying economic assumptions;  
Added : shall not disclose this publicly.  
Removed : (ii) Financial reporting (e.g. profit and loss (P&L), a nd balance sheet), covering the 
Added : 57. Pillar 1 capital requirements shall include a buffer for uncertainties surrounding the 
Removed : most recent period and the whole (forward -looking) ICAAP reporting period;  
Added : Pillar 1 regime that affect the banking population as a whole. Bank -specific uncertainties will 
Removed : (iii) Internal reporting (e.g. management information, capital reporting, liquidity 
Added : be treated under Pillar 2. The Central Bank  require banks to operate with  a buffer, over and 
Removed : reporting, and internal risk reporting);  
Added : above the Pillar 1 standard s. Banks must maintain this buffer for example:   
Removed : (iv) Recovery plans, including the results of resolvability assessment, if any, and 
Added : 164  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : identification of critical functions;  
Added : i. Pillar 1 minimums are anticipated to be set to achieve a level of bank 
Removed : (v) Third -party reports (e.g. audit reports, and reports by equity/credit analysts), 
Added : creditworthiness in markets that is below the level of creditworthiness sought by 
Removed : states their main concerns and issues;   
Added : many ban ks for their own reasons. For example, most international banks appear 
Removed : 160  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : to prefer to have low risk profile and thus be highly rated by internationally 
Removed : (vi) A descriptive report on the main business lines generating revenues broken 
Added : recognised rating agencies. This is currently the case in the UAE. Thus, banks are 
Removed : down by main products, services, other activities, geographies, and market 
Added : likely to choose to ope rate above Pillar 1 minimums for competitive reasons.  
Removed : position; and  
Added : ii. In the normal course of business, the type and volume of activities will change, as 
Removed : (vii) Peer group analysis segregated by competitor bank, product, or business lines 
Added : will the different risk exposures, causing fluctuations in the overall capital ratio.  
Removed : targeting the same source of profits and customers (e.g. credi t card businesses 
Added : iii. It may be costly for banks to ra ise additional capital, especially if this needs to be 
Removed : targeting consumers at a particular economic stratum in a specific country.  
Added : done quickly or at a time when market conditions are unfavourable.  
Removed : 64. Business model analysis may act as a base for the development of Reverse Stress 
Added : iv. For banks to fall below minimum regulatory capital requirements is a serious 
Removed : Test scenarios.  
Added : matter. It will place banks in breach of the relevant law  and/or prompt non -
Removed : B. Credit Risk  
Added : discretionary corrective action on the part of supervisors such as withdrawal of 
Removed : 65. Credit risk is the risk of losses arising from a borro wer or counterparty failing to meet 
Added : license.  
Removed : its obligations as they fall due. Each bank should assess all its credit exposures and determine 
Added : v. There may be risks, either specific to individual banks, or more generally to an 
Removed : whether the risk weights applied to such exposures under the regulatory standardised 
Added : economy at large, that are not taken into account in Pillar 1. The  Central Bank  
Removed : approach for credit risk (Standardised  Approach) are appropriate for the inherent risk of the 
Added : uses its own internal benchmarks and may request banks at any time for additional 
Removed : exposures. Each bank should have the ability to assess credit risk at the portfolio level as well 
Added : data to calculate an add -on. 
Removed : as at the exposure or counterparty level.  
Added : 58. There are several means available to the Central Bank  for ensuring that individual 
Removed : 66. To ensure that each bank has sufficient capital allocated fo r credit risk, each bank 
Added : banks are operating with adequate levels of capi tal. Among other methods, the Central Bank  
Removed : should compare their capital consumption under two methods for all credit exposures across 
Added : may set higher minimum capital requirements or define categories above minimum ratios 
Removed : all asset classes: (i) the Standardised Approach and (ii) an estimation under the foundation 
Added : (e.g. well capitalised and adequately capitalised) for identifying the capitalisation level of the 
Removed : internal -rating based approach (F -IRB) in the B asel Framework (“IRB approach: risk weight 
Added : bank.  
Removed : functions”, CRE31).  
Added : Principle 4: The Central Bank  will intervene at an early stage to prevent capital 
Removed : 67. The Central Bank recognises that some banks may not have appropriately calibrated 
Added : from falling below the minimum levels required to support the risk 
Removed : probability of defaults (PDs) for the calculation of the F -IRB approach. In the absence of such 
Added : characteristics of a particular bank and will require rapid remedial action if 
Removed : calibration, ba nks should rely on their 1 -year PD used for IFRS provisioning purposes. Each 
Added : capital is not maintained or restored.  
Removed : bank should undertake this comparison at asset class level, where higher F -IRB numbers 
Added :  
Removed : indicate additional required capital. Drivers of material differences between the two 
Added : 59. The Central Bank  will consider a range of options if it becomes concerned that a bank 
Removed : approa ches should be explained.  
Added : is not meeting the requirements embodied in the supervisory principles outlined above. 
Removed : 68. If a bank uses credit risk mitigation techniques (CRMT), it should analyse and evaluate 
Added : These actions may trigger the recovery plan that includes and not limited to intensifying  the 
Removed : the risks associated to such mitigation under Pillar 2 risks measurement. The bank should 
Added : monitoring of the bank, restricting the payment of dividends, requiring the bank to prepare 
Removed : analyse potential effects, the enforceability and th e effectiveness of such CRMT, in particular 
Added : and implement a satisfactory capital adequacy restoration plan, and requiring the bank to 
Removed : in the case of real estate collaterals in order to estimate residual credit risk with prudence.  
Added : raise additional capital immediately. The Central Bank  have the discr etion to use the tools 
Removed : C. Market Risk  
Added : best suited to the circumstances of the bank and its operating environment.  
Removed : 69. Market risk is the risk of losses in on - and off -balance sheet positions arising from 
Added : 60. The permanent solution to banks’ difficulties is not exclusively increased capital. 
Removed : movements in marke t factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, 
Added : However, some of the required measures (such as improving s ystems and con trols) may 
Removed : commodities prices, credit spreads, and options volatilities. Each bank should have 
Added : take some  time to implement. Therefore, increased capital requirements might be used as 
Removed : methodologies and limits that enable it to assess and actively manage all material market risks, 
Added : an interim measure while permanent measures to improve the bank’s position are being put 
Removed : at several levels of granularity including  position, desk, business line, or firm -wide level.  
Added : in place. Once these permanent measures have been put in place and h ave been seen by 
Removed : 70. Under its ICAAP, each bank should assess its capital adequacy for market risk by 
Added : the Central Bank  to be effective, the interim increase in capital requirements may be 
Removed : considering methods other than the regulatory standardised approach for market risk . Each 
Added : removed.  
Removed : bank should start this assessment with the metrics already employed to measure market risk 
Added : V. Specific issues to be addressed under the supervisory 
Removed : as part of regular risk management, including net open positions (NOP), value -at-risk (VaR), 
Added : review process  
Removed : stressed VaR, and economic stress tests. The calibration of capit al associated to Pillar 2 risks 
Added :  
Removed : should be undertaken with prudence and should include risks such as concentration risk, 
Added : 61. Below are a few important issues that the Central Bank will particularly focus on when 
Removed : market illiquidity, basis risk, and jump -to-default risk.  
Added : carrying out the supervisory review process. These issues include some key risks that are 
Removed : 71. Ultimately, market risk capital should be designed to protect the bank against  market 
Added : not directly addressed under Pillar 1.  
Removed : risk volatility over the long term, including periods of stress and high volatility. Therefore, each  
Added :  
Removed : 161  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added :   
Removed : bank should ensure that such calibration include appropriate stressed periods. The analysis 
Added : 165  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : should be structured based on the bank’s key drivers of  market risk, including portfolios, asset 
Added : A. Interest rate risk in the banking book  
Removed : classes, market risk factors, geographies, product types and tenors.  
Added :  
Removed : 72. Each bank should analyse its amortised cost portfolio under Pillar 2, considering the 
Added : 62. Interest rate risk in the banking book is a potentially significant ris k that requires 
Removed : difference between the market value against the book value.  
Added : capital. There is considerable heterogeneity across UAE banks in terms of the nature of the 
Removed : D. Operational Risk  
Added : underlying risk and the processes for monitoring and managing it. In light of this, the Central 
Removed : 73. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
Added : Bank considers it is most appropriate to treat inter est rate risk in the banking book under 
Removed : people, or systems, or external events. This definition includes legal risk and compliance risk 
Added : Pillar 2 of the Framework.  
Removed : but excludes strategic and reputational risk. The  framework for operational risk management 
Added : 63. To facilitate the Central Bank’s  monitoring of interest rate risk exposures across 
Removed : should cover the bank’s appetite and tolerance for operational risks, and the manner and 
Added : banks, banks would have to provide the results of their internal measurement systems, 
Removed : extent to which operational risk is transferred outside the bank.  
Added : expressed in terms of both, economic value and net interest income, relative to capital, using 
Removed : 74. Operational risk is a recurrent and a material source of l osses for many banks but the 
Added : a standardised interest rate shock as described in the accompanying guidance document.  
Removed : existing approaches (the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA), the Standardised Approach (SA), 
Added : 64. If the Central Bank  determines that banks are not holding capital commensurate with 
Removed : and the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA)) for calculating Pillar  1 operational risk 
Added : the level  of interest rate risk, they must require the bank to reduce its risk, to hold a specific 
Removed : capital may not reliably reflect the nature and  scale of potential operational risk losses. The 
Added : additional amount of capital or some combination of the two.  
Removed : Pillar  1 Standardised Approach for operational risk uses gross income as a measure of capital. 
Added : B. Stress tests  
Removed : Gross income is a risk -insensitive proxy for operational risk capital, which may lead banks to 
Added :  
Removed : underestimate the  risk. This was evident during the economic downturn in 2009, when banks’ 
Added : 65.  A bank should ensure that it has sufficient capital to meet the Pillar 1 requirements 
Removed : income dropped, lowering their regulatory operational risk capital requirement, yet operational 
Added : and the results (where a deficiency has been indicated) of the credit risk stress test 
Removed : risks were either constant or even elevated in some cases. Therefore, banks should ens ure 
Added : performed. The Central Bank  will review how the stress test has been carried out.  
Removed : that their Pillar 2 capital charge covers operational risks that are not captured by regulatory 
Added : 66. Central bank will use the reference model to challenge the stress test results 
Removed : capital methodologies. The analysis should include a robust and conservative forecast of 
Added : Reference model is based on +/ - 200 basis point shock based on NII and EVE. Central Bank 
Removed : operational risk losses and respective capital requirements (at lea st split into conduct and non -
Added : assumes a higher basis point for stress testing which is described in the accompanying 
Removed : conduct risks).  
Added : guidance document.  
Removed : 75. Legal risk is considered an operational risk. Each bank is required to analyse, assess, 
Added : 67. The results of the stress test will thus contribute directly to the expectation that a bank 
Removed : and quantify the impact of legal risk failures on its capital structure. Examples of legal risk 
Added : will operate above the Pillar 1 minimum regulatory capital ratios. The outcome of the Central 
Removed : include inadequate documen tation, legal, regulatory incapacity, the insufficient authority of a 
Added : Bank stress tests will be used as a benchmark. If there is an impact of more than 200bps, 
Removed : counterparty, and contract invalidity/ unenforceability. The Legal department of each bank bear 
Added : the Central Bank  will require setting higher minimum capital requirements so that capital 
Removed : responsibility for the identification and management of this risk. They must consult with internal 
Added : resources could cover the Pillar 1 requirements plus the result of a recalculated  stress test.  
Removed : and external legal counsel. Subsidiaries and branches of major international banking groups 
Added : C. Residual risk  
Removed : typically have in -house legal departments, acting under the guidance of the group, which aims 
Added :  
Removed : to facilitate the business of the group, by providing proacti ve, business -oriented advice. The 
Added : 68. This section  allows banks to offset credit or counterparty risk with collateral, 
Removed : outcome of legal and/or regulatory issues to which the bank is currently exposed, and others, 
Added : guarantees or credit derivatives, leading to reduced capital charges in Pillar 1. While banks 
Removed : which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict and, consequently, there can be no 
Added : use credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques to reduc e their credit risk, these techniques give 
Removed : assurance that the outcome of a legal matters will not be material to the financial condition of 
Added : rise to risks that may render the overall risk reduction less effective. Accordingly, these risks 
Removed : the bank.  
Added : (e.g. operational risk or liquidity risk) to which banks are exposed are of supervisory concern. 
Removed : 76. Given the potential impact from operational risk, each bank should evaluate under 
Added : Where such risks a rise, and irrespective of fulfilling the minimum requirements set out in 
Removed : Pillar  2 risks arising from business conduct risks and money laundering / financing of terrorism. 
Added : Pillar 1, a bank could find itself with greater credit risk exposure to the underlying 
Removed : In addi tion, each bank should consider internal and external operational risks faced by it, 
Added : counterparty than it had expected. Examples of these risks include:  
Removed : including but not limited to operational cyber risk, IT risks, and outsourcing, and each bank is 
Added : i. Inability to seize, or reali se in a timely manner, collateral pledged (on default of the 
Removed : expected to consider ways in which it can improve its operational resilien ce. Each bank should 
Added : counterparty);  
Removed : provide details in the ICAAP report on the outcome of its Risk Control Self -Assessment (RCSA) 
Added : ii. Refusal or delay by a guarantor to pay; and  
Removed : process to collate bottom -up operational risk drivers across businesses.  
Added : iii. Ineffectiveness of untested documentation.  
Removed : 77. Each bank should undertake quantitative stress testing based on its historical loss data 
Added : 69. The Central Bank  will require banks to have in place appropriate written CRM policies 
Removed : and operational risk profile.  
Added : and pro cedures in order to control these residual risks. A bank may be required to submit 
Removed : E. Credit Concentration Risk  
Added : these policies and procedures to the Central Bank  and must regularly review their 
Removed : 78. Section  V.D of the ICAAP Standard requires banks to address weaknesses at the  
Added : appropriateness, effectiveness and operation.  
Removed : 162  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : 70. In its CRM policies and procedures, a bank mu st consider whether, when calculating 
Removed : portfolio level including credit concentrations risk. Credit concentration risk is the incremental 
Added : capital requirements, it is appropriate to give the full recognition of the value of the credit risk 
Removed : credit loss in a portfolio of credit exposures, caused by high correlation between the credit risk 
Added : mitigant as permitted in Pillar 1 and must demonstrate that its CRM management policies  
Removed : drivers of those exposures. Such concentration risk arises mostly due to high correlations and 
Added : 166  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : dependencies between individual obligors (name concentration) or  between economic sectors 
Added : and procedures are appropriat e to the level of capital benefit that it is recognising. Where 
Removed : (sectoral concentration). Credit concentration risk can affect a bank’s health or core operations, 
Added : the Central Bank  is not satisfied as to the robustness, suitability or application of these 
Removed : liquidity, earnings and capital ratios. The Central Bank considers concentration risk as a key 
Added : policies and procedures they may direct the bank to take immediate remedial action or hold 
Removed : material Pillar  2 risk for all UAE b anks.  
Added : additiona l capital against residual risk until the deficiencies in the CRM procedures are 
Removed : 79. Consequently, credit concentration arises when large exposures are associated with a 
Added : rectified to the satisfaction of the Central Bank . For example, the Central Bank  may direct a 
Removed : small number of obligors or a small number of sectors, but not only. Credit concentration risk 
Added : bank to:  
Removed : can arise from a seemingly granular portfolio but with high correlatio n between the obligors’ 
Added : i. Make adjustments to the assumptions on holding periods, supervisory haircuts, or 
Removed : risk drivers.  
Added : volatility (in the own haircuts approach);  
Removed : 80. In accordance with the Central Bank re Large Exposures - Credit Concentrations Limits 
Added : ii. Give less than full recognition of credit risk mitigants (on the whole credit portfolio 
Removed : (Notice No.226/2018), an exposure is deemed large if it accounts for more than 10% of a 
Added : or by specific product line); and/or  
Removed : bank’s capital. Such threshold has been implemented for regulatory purposes. The 
Added : iii. Hold a specific additional amount of capital.  
Removed : measurement of concentration risk for risk management purposes and for determining Pillar 2 
Added :  
Removed : risk capital requirements should refer to the wider definition of concentration risk. Each bank 
Added : D. Risk Concentration  
Removed : is exposed to a degree of c oncentration risk, even when complying with the Large Exposure 
Added :  
Removed : Regulation.  
Added : 71. Unmanaged risk and excessive concentrations are an important cause of major 
Removed : 81. Each bank should perform a detailed risk analysis specific to the Real Estate exposures 
Added : problems in banks. A bank must aggregate all similar direct and indirect exposures 
Removed : (RE) of the bank and the Central Bank re Standards for Real Estate Exposures (Notice No. 
Added : regardless of where the exposures have been booked. A risk concentration is any single 
Removed : 5733 /2021).  
Added : exposure o r group of similar exposures (e.g. to the same borrower or counterparty, including 
Removed : 82. Credit concentration risk is a common feature of UAE banks, but currently the Central 
Added : protection providers, geographic area, industry or other risk factors) with the potential to 
Removed : Bank regulations for banks do not include an explicit Pillar  1 capital requirement for name and 
Added : produce (i) losses large enough (relative to a bank’s earnings, capital, total a ssets or overall 
Removed : sector concentration risk. Credit concentration risk is a key prud ential risk for which the capital 
Added : risk level) to threaten a bank’s creditworthiness or ability to maintain its core operations or 
Removed : requirement is at the discretion of banks, and it should be held under Pillar  2. This risk should 
Added : (ii) a change in a bank’s risk profile. Risk concentrations must be analysed on both a bank 
Removed : warrant particular attention from each bank. In particular:  
Added : legal entity and consolidated basis, as an unmanage d concentration at a subsidiary bank 
Removed : (i) For the purpose of risk management, each bank should ensure tha t credit 
Added : may appear immaterial at the consolidated level, but can nonetheless threaten the viability 
Removed : concentration risk is pro -actively and efficiently addressed. Each bank should 
Added : of the subsidiary. A change in the concentration risk is identified as a significant change.  
Removed : develop policies and procedures for the identification, measurement, monitoring, 
Added : 72. Risk concentrations must be viewed  in the context of a single or a set of closely 
Removed : and reporting of credit concentration risk. Credit concentration risk arises from 
Added : related risk -drivers that may have different impacts on a bank. These concentrations must 
Removed : expos ures to obligors structured as conglomerates. Therefore each bank should 
Added : be integrated when assessing a bank’s overall risk exposure. A bank must consider 
Removed : have a mechanism in place to identify and aggregate exposures across related 
Added : concentrations that are based on com mon or correlated risk factors that reflect more subtle 
Removed : entities based on their legal relationships. Data should be aggregated across 
Added : or more situation -specific factors than traditional concentrations, such as correlations 
Removed : systems operated by differen t business units or entities. This should be indicated 
Added : between market, credit risks and liquidity risk.  
Removed : through the bank’s management information system (MIS);  
Added : 73. The growth of market -based intermediation has increased the po ssibility that different 
Removed : (ii) For the purpose of estimating the Pillar 2 capital associated with credit 
Added : areas of a bank are exposed to a common set of products, risk factors or counterparties. 
Removed : concentration risk, each bank should build upon the methodologies emplo yed 
Added : This has created new challenges for risk aggregation and concentration management. 
Removed : for risk management. These methods should be developed further, as deemed 
Added : Through its risk management processes and MIS, a bank must be able to identify and 
Removed : appropriate, in order to fully measure the additional capital. Each bank should 
Added : aggregate similar risk exposures across the firm, including across legal entities, asset types 
Removed : compare several methodologies and propose a choice based on clear and 
Added : (e.g. loans, derivatives and structured products), risk areas (e.g. the trading book) and 
Removed : documented justification. At  a minimum, each bank should calculate and report 
Added : geographic regions. The typical situations in w hich risk concentrations can arise include:  
Removed : the additional capital using the Herfindahl -Hirschman Index (HHI) methodology; 
Added : i. Exposures to a single counterparty, borrower or group of connected counterparties 
Removed : and 
Added : or borrowers;  
Removed : (iii) For the purpose of capital planning, each bank should ensure that concentration 
Added : ii. Industry or economic sectors, including exposures to both regulated and 
Removed : risk is taken into account adequately withi n its ICAAP. Each bank should assess 
Added : nonregulated financial institutions such as  hedge funds and private equity firms;  
Removed : the amount of capital, which it consider adequate to hold given the level of 
Added : iii. Geographical regions;  
Removed : concentration risk in their portfolios and given their business plan and the 
Added : iv. Exposures arising from credit risk mitigation techniques, including exposure to 
Removed : expected economic environment.   
Added : similar collateral types or to a single or closely related credit protection provider;  
Removed : 163  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : v. Trading exposures;  
Removed : F. Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB)  
Added : vi. Exposures to counterparties (e.g. hedge funds and hedge counterparties) through 
Removed : 83. IRRBB is the risk of loss in the banking book caused by changes in interest rates. 
Added : the execution or processing of transactions (either product or service);  
Removed : Interest rate risk can arise both in the banking book and/or the trading book. While interest rate 
Added : vii. Assets that are held in the banking book or trading book, such as loans, derivatives 
Removed : risk in the trading book is addressed under the Pillar  1 mark et risk framework, the interest rate 
Added : and structured pr oducts; and  
Removed : risk in the banking book should be addressed under Pillar 2. Conventional banks refer to this 
Added : viii. Off-balance sheet exposures, including guarantees, liquidity lines and other 
Removed : risk as IRRBB while Islamic banks are exposed to the analogous risk called profit rate risk in 
Added : commitments.  
Removed : the banking book (PRRBB).  
Added :   
Removed : 84. Each  bank should define a risk appetite pertaining to IRRRB that should be approved 
Added : 167  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : by the Board and implemented through a comprehensive risk appetite framework, i.e. policies 
Added : 74. Risk concentrations can also arise through a combination of exposures across these 
Removed : and procedures for limiting and controlling IRRBB. Each bank should have a process 
Added : broad categories. A bank must have an understanding of its firm -wide risk concentrations 
Removed : supported by adequate policies to manage IRRBB appropriately. This involves, as for any other 
Added : resulting from similar exposures across its different business lines.  
Removed : risk, comprehensive identification, measurement, reporting, monitoring, and mitigation.  
Added : 75. While risk concentrations often arise due to direct exposures to borrowers and 
Removed : 85. The measurement process should be based upon several existing Standards and  
Added : obligors, a bank may also incur a concentration to a particular asset type indirectly through 
Removed : Guidance:  
Added : investments backed by such assets (e.g. collateralised debt obligations – CDOs), as well as 
Removed : (i) Central Bank “Standards re Capital Adequacy of Banks in the UAE - ICAAP 
Added : exposure to protection providers guaranteeing the performance of the specific asset type 
Removed : Standards”;  
Added : (e.g. monoline insurers). A bank must have in place adequate, syste matic procedures for 
Removed : (ii) Central Bank “Regulation and Standards re Interest Rate & Rate of Return Risk 
Added : identifying high correlation between the creditworthiness of a protection provider and the 
Removed : in the Banking Book” in 2018 (Notice 3021/2018 and Circular 165/2018);  
Added : obligors of the underlying exposures due to their performance being dependent on common 
Removed : (iii) Central Ban k Model Management Standards and Guidance in 2022 (Notice 
Added : factors beyond systematic risk (i.e. “wrong way risk”).  
Removed : 5052/2022); and  
Added : 76. Procedures must be in place to communicate risk concentrations to the board of 
Removed : (iv) Basel Framework - Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (SRP  31). 
Added : directors and senior management in a manner that clearly indicates where in the organisation 
Removed : Measurement  
Added : each segment of a risk concentration resides. A bank must have credible risk mitiga tion 
Removed : 86. The assessment should include all positions of each bank’s potential basis risk, re -
Added : strategies in place that have senior management approval. This may include altering 
Removed : pricing gaps, comme rcial margins, gaps for material currencies optionality, and non -maturing 
Added : business strategies, reducing limits or increasing minimum capital requirements in line with 
Removed : deposits. The quantitative impact analysis should be supported by description and analysis of 
Added : the desired risk profile. While it implements risk mitigation strategies, the bank must be aware 
Removed : the key assumptions made by the bank, in particular, assumptions regarding loan 
Added : of possible concentrations that might arise because of employing risk mitigation techniques.  
Removed : prepayme nts, the behaviour of non -maturity deposits (CASA), non -rated sensitive assets, 
Added : 77. Banks must employ a number of techniques, as appropriate, to measure risk 
Removed : contractual interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable -rate items, and measuring the 
Added : concentrations. These techniques include shocks to various risk fa ctors; use of business 
Removed : frequency of the interest rate risk in the banking book.  
Added : level and firm -wide scenarios; and the use of integrated stress testing and economic capital 
Removed : 87. DSIBs and other banks with si gnificant interest rate risk (IRR) exposure should  
Added : models.  The Central Bank  will use the reference model to challenge the credit concentration 
Removed : compute the economic value of equity (EVE) at a granular facility level, while non -DSIBs may 
Added : risk. The reference model is based on Herfindah l-Hirschman index (HHI), therefore the 
Removed : compute EVE at exposure level, which is based upon the summation of discounted gap risk 
Added : Central Bank  requires all the banks to calculate and report the credit concentration risk using 
Removed : across time buckets, rat her than a granular net present value (NPV) estimation at exposure 
Added : Herfindahl -Hirschman Index (HHI) methodology (single name and sector concentration) to 
Removed : level.  
Added : be part of ICAAP document irrespec tive of the approach chosen by the bank. Identified 
Removed : Scenarios  
Added : concentrations must be measured in a number of ways, including for example, consideration 
Removed : 88. For the purpose of capital calibration, each bank should employ the interest rate shock 
Added : of gross versus net exposures, use of notional amounts, and analysis of exposures with and 
Removed : scenarios corresponding to Table 12 of Central Bank Model Management Guidance and table 
Added : without counterparty he dges. A bank must establish internal position limits for concentrations 
Removed : 2 of the SRP  31 for their AED and non -AED positions respectively.  
Added : to which it may be exposed. When conducting periodic stress tests, a bank must incorporate 
Removed : 89. In addition to the standard shocks prescribed above, DSIBs and other banks with 
Added : all major risk concentrations and identify and respond to potential changes in market 
Removed : significant exposure to interest rate risk are expected to apply further shocks/ idiosyncratic 
Added : conditi ons that could adversely have an impa ct on their performance and capital adequacy.  
Removed : scenarios , which will take into account:  
Added : 78. The assessment of such risks under a bank’s ICAAP and the supervisory review 
Removed :  The bank’s inherent risk profile;   
Added : process must not be a mechanical process, but one in which each bank determines, 
Removed : 164  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : depending on i ts business model, its own specific vulnerabilities. Every bank must discuss 
Removed :  Historical shocks experienced by the bank due to market sentiment and 
Added : these vulnerabilities with the Central Bank . An appropriate level of capital for risk 
Removed : corresponding to macro -financial factors; and  
Added : concentrations must be incorporated in a bank’s ICAAP, as well as in Pillar 2 assessments.  
Removed :  Additional scenarios prescribed by the Central Bank specifically through 
Added : 79. A bank must have in place effective internal policies, systems and controls to identify, 
Removed : supervisory interactions or financial stability processes.  
Added : measure, monitor, manage, control and mitigate its risk concentrations in a timely manner. 
Removed : Capital Calculation  
Added : Not only must normal market conditions be considered, but also the potential build -up of 
Removed : 90. The capital requirement should be aggregated across all currencies and scenarios 
Added : concentrations under stressed market conditions, economic downturns and periods of 
Removed : conservatively.  
Added : general market illiquidity. In addition, the bank must assess scenarios that consider possible 
Removed : 91. The estimation of the Pillar 2 capital corresponding to IRRBB should be based on the 
Added : concentrations arising from contractual and non -contractual contin gent claims. The 
Removed : most conservative loss arising from (i) the change in the economic value of equity (ΔEVE), and 
Added : scenarios must also combine the potential build -up of pipeline exposures together with the 
Removed : (ii) the change in net interest income (ΔNII). The most conservative result should be considered 
Added : loss of market liquidity and a significant decline in asset values. The Central Bank  will use 
Removed : across all the scenarios calibrated by the bank. (In avoidan ce of doubt, the allocated capital 
Added : its own benchmarking to determine if banks estimation of additional capital requirements is 
Removed : for IRRBB should not be lower than the maximum of the absolute EVE impact and the absolute 
Added : sufficient.  
Removed : NII impact: Max(abs(EVE impact), abs(NII impact).  
Added : E. Counterparty credit risk  
Removed : 92. The Central Bank considers a bank as an outlier when the IRRBB EVE impact based 
Added :  
Removed : on the standard parallel shock leads to an economic value decline of more than 15% of its Tier 
Added : 80. Counterparty Credit R isk (CCR) represents a form of credit risk and is covered in 
Removed : 1 capital. The Central Bank may request an outlier bank to:  
Added : Pillar 1.   
Removed : (i) Reduce its IRRBB exposures (e.g. by hedging);  
Added : 168  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : (ii) Raise additional capital;  
Added : 81. The bank must have counterparty credit risk management policies, processes and 
Removed : (iii) Set constraints on the intern al risk parameters used by a bank; and/ or  
Added : systems that are conceptually sound and implemented with integrity relative to the 
Removed : (iv) Improve its risk management framework.  
Added : sophistication and complexity of a firm’s holdings of exposures that give rise to CCR. A sound 
Removed : 93. Irrespective of the approach or model chosen by the bank, at a minimum each bank 
Added : counterparty credit risk management framework shall include the identification, 
Removed : should calculate and report IRRBB using the methodology described by the Central Bank 
Added : measur ement, management, approval and internal reporting of CCR.  
Removed : Model M anagement Standards and Guidance.  
Added : 82. The bank’s risk management policies must take account of the market, liquidity and 
Removed : G. Model Risk  
Added : operational risks that can be associated with CCR and, to the extent practicable, 
Removed : 94. Models have become an integral part of decision -making in the banking sector for risk 
Added : interrelationships among those r isks. The bank must not undertake business with a 
Removed : management, business decisions, and accounting. Inaccurate model results, e.g. based on 
Added : counterparty without assessing its creditworthiness and must take due account of both 
Removed : wrong assumptions or valuations, may lead to actual or potential financial losses or an 
Added : settlement and pre -settlement credit risk. These risks must be managed as comprehensively 
Removed : underestimation of risks. Therefore, the Central Bank considers model risk a significant risk 
Added : as practicable at the counterp arty level (aggregating counterparty exposures with other credit 
Removed : type.  
Added : exposures) and at the firm -wide level.  
Removed : 95. Simple models should not be confused with poorly designed models.  Poorly designed 
Added : 83. The board of directors and senior management must be actively involved in the CCR 
Removed : models can be misleadi ng and interfere with sound decision -making. Small and/or 
Added : control process and must regard this as an essential aspect of the bus iness to which 
Removed : unsophisticated banks can employ simple models. However, they cannot employ poorly 
Added : significant resources need to be devoted.  
Removed : designed models. Each bank should manage model risk in accordance to the Central Bank 
Added : 84. The bank’s CCR management system must be used in conjunction with internal credit 
Removed : Model Management Standards an d Guidance.  
Added : and trading limits. In this regard, credit and trading limits must be the outcome of the firm’s 
Removed : 96. Model risk should be incorporated in each banks’ risk framework alongside other key 
Added : risk measurement mode l in a manner that is consistent over time and that is well understood 
Removed : risks, as inherent consequences of conducting their activities (refer to Appendix 3.2). 
Added : by credit managers, traders and senior management.  
Removed : Consequently, model risk should be managed through a formal process inco rporating the 
Added : 85. The bank must have a routine and rigorous program of stress testing in place as a 
Removed : bank’s appetite for model uncertainty. The framework should be designed to identify, measure, 
Added : supplement to the CCR analysis based on the day -to-day output of the bank’s risk 
Removed : monitor, and mitigate this risk. A bank should mitigate a large appetite for model risk by 
Added : measurement model. The results of this stress testing must be reviewed periodically by 
Removed : counter -measures such as conservative buffers on model re sults and/ or additional allocated 
Added : senior management and must be reflected in the CCR policies and limits set by management 
Removed : Pillar 2 capital.   
Added : and the board of directors. Where stress tests reve al particular vulnerability to a given set of 
Removed : 165  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : circumstances, management must explicitly consider appropriate risk management 
Removed : 97. The Central Bank recognises that the estimation of model risk is challenging. However, 
Added : strategies (e.g. by hedging against that outcome, or reducing the size of the firm’s 
Removed : each bank should demonstrate that they have implemented steps to measure the potential 
Added : exposures).  
Removed : losses arising from model risk. At minimum, each bank should implement a grouping approach 
Added : 86. The bank must have a routine in pl ace for ensuring compliance with a documented 
Removed : to categorise models according to their associated model risk. The uncertainty and losses 
Added : set of internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the operation of the CCR 
Removed : arising from models should be estimated by using a range of different techniques, including:  
Added : management system. The firm’s CCR management system must be well documented, for 
Removed : (i) Internal and external validations;  
Added : example, through a risk management manual t hat describes the basic principles of the risk 
Removed : (ii) Comparison against alternat ive models;  
Added : management system and that provides an explanation of the empirical techniques used to 
Removed : (iii) Sensitivity analysis; and  
Added : measure CCR.  
Removed : (iv) Stress tests.  
Added : 87. The bank must conduct an independent review of the CCR management system 
Removed : 98. Each bank should also consider the quality of its model risk management in the model 
Added : regularly through its own internal a uditing process. This review must include both the 
Removed : risk analysis, including but not limited to the quality of model documentation, data, 
Added : activities of the business credit and trading units and of the independent CCR control. A 
Removed : assumptions, validation, staff, implementation, and usage.  
Added : review of the overall CCR management process must take place at regular intervals (ideally 
Removed : Risk Diversification Effects  
Added : not less than once a yea r) and must specifically address, at a minimum:  
Removed : 99. Each bank is expected to take a prudent approach whenever assuming risk 
Added : i. The adequacy of the documentation of the CCR management system and 
Removed : diversification effects.  Furthermore, each bank should be aware that the Central Bank as a 
Added : process;  
Removed : matter of principle will not take in to account inter -risk diversification in the SREP. Banks should 
Added : ii. The organisation of the CCR control;  
Removed : be cognisant of this when applying inter -risk diversification in its ICAAP.  
Added : iii. The integration of CCR measures into daily risk management;  
Removed : H. Financial Risks from Climate Change  
Added : iv. The approval process for risk prici ng models and valuation systems used by front 
Removed : 100. Banks are expected to build up Board awareness and understanding of the financia l 
Added : and back -office personnel;  
Removed : risks arising from climate change and how they will affect their business models. Each bank 
Added : v. The validation of any significant change in the CCR measurement process;  
Removed : should use scenario analysis and stress tests to improve the risk identification process, to 
Added : vi. The scope of counterparty credit risks captured by the risk measurement model;  
Removed : understand the short - and long -term financial risks to their business  model from climate 
Added : vii. The integrity of the management  information system;  
Removed : change, and to develop appropriate strategies accordingly.  
Added : viii. The accuracy and completeness of CCR data;  
Removed : I. Liquidity Risk and Funding Cost  
Added : ix. The verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data sources used 
Removed : 101. Though capital is not a direct mitigation for liquidity risk and liquidity is not a mitigation 
Added : to run internal models, including the independence of such data sources;  
Removed : for capital risk, both risk types are interlinked.  The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Added : x. The accuracy and appropriateness o f volatility and correlation assumptions;   
Removed : Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) are 
Added : 169  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : expected to inform each other; with respect to the underlying assumptions, stress test results, 
Added : xi. The accuracy of valuation and risk transformation calculations;  
Removed : and forecasted management actions. Each bank is expected to assess the potential impact of 
Added : xii. The verification of the model’s accuracy through frequent back testing . 
Removed : scenarios, integrating capital and liquidity impacts, and potential feedback processes, taking 
Added :  
Removed : into account, in particular, losses arising from the liquidation of assets, increased funding costs 
Added : F. Operational risk  
Removed : or av ailability of funding during periods of stress.  
Added :  
Removed : 102. For example, each bank is expected to assess the impact of deteriorating capital levels, 
Added : 88. Gross income, used in the Basic Indicator and Standardised Approaches for 
Removed : as projected in the ICAAP, on their liquidity. A downgrade by an external rating agency could, 
Added : operational risk, is only a proxy for the scale of operational risk exposure of a bank and can 
Removed : for example, have direct  implications for the refinancing ability of the bank. Vice versa, changes 
Added : in some cases underestimate the need for capital for operational risk. The Central Bank  will 
Removed : in funding cost could impact capital adequacy.  
Added : consider whether the capital requirement generated by the Pillar 1 calculation gives a 
Removed : VII. ICAAP Stress Test and Reverse Stress Test  
Added : consistent picture of the individual bank’s operational risk exposure, for example in 
Removed : 103. Stress test helps to improve the bank’s understanding of the vulnerabilities that it faces 
Added : comparison with other banks of similar size and with similar operations. The use of Pillar 2 
Removed : under exceptional, but plausible events, and provide the bank with an indication of how much 
Added : to charge capital for inadequacy in risk management may also be applied by the Central 
Removed : capital might be needed to absorb losses if such events occur, which supplements other risk 
Added : Bank . 
Removed : management approaches and measures. These events can be financial, opera tional, legal, or 
Added : 89. A bank offering Islamic financial services must ensure that its operational risk 
Removed : relate to any other risk that may have an economic impact on the bank. The results derived  
Added : management framework addresses any operational risks arising from potential non -
Removed : 166  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : compliance with Sharī’ah provisions and Higher Shari’ah  Authority resolutions.  
Removed : from stress tests can also assist the bank in determining the appropriate appetite for different 
Added : G. Market risk  
Removed : types of risks and in estimating the amount of cap ital that should be set aside to cover them.  
Added : Policies and procedures for trading book eligibility  
Removed : 104. Each bank is required to implement a stress testing framework to address both the 
Added : 90. Clear policies and procedures used to determine the exposures that may be included 
Removed : needs of the ICAAP and broader risk management. Stress tests and the stress test outcome 
Added : in, and those that must be excluded from, the trading book for purposes of calculating 
Removed : analysis should not be confined to the I CAAP. It should be designed to support decision -
Added : regulatory capital are critical to ensure the consistency and integrity of a bank’s tr ading book. 
Removed : making across the bank as explained in this section.  
Added : The Central Bank  must be satisfied that the policies and procedures clearly delineate the 
Removed : 105. Each bank should perform an in -depth review of its potential vulnerabilities, capturing 
Added : boundaries of the bank’s trading book and consistent with the bank’s risk management 
Removed : all material risks on a bank -wide basis that result from its busine ss model and operating 
Added : capabilities and practices. The Central Bank  must also be satisfied t hat transfers of positions 
Removed : environment in the context of adverse events, stressed macroeconomic (e.g. economic cycle 
Added : between banking and trading books can only occur in a very limited set of circumstances. 
Removed : risk), and financial conditions.  
Added : The Central Bank  will require a bank to modify its policies and procedures when they prove 
Removed : 106. As part of the ICAAP exercise, each bank should carry out integrated, regular, rigorous, 
Added : insufficient with the general principles set fort h in this Standard, or not consistent with the 
Removed : and forward -looking s tress tests that are appropriate to the nature of the bank’s business 
Added : bank’s risk management capabilities and practices.  
Removed : model and major sources of risk. The frequency should be annually and more frequently, when 
Added : Valuation  
Removed : necessary, depending on the individual circumstances.  
Added : 91. Prudent valuation policies and procedures form the foundation on which any robust 
Removed : 107. The Central Bank may challenge the key a ssumptions and their continuing relevance 
Added : assessment of market risk capital adequacy must be built. For a we ll-diversified portfolio 
Removed : to ensure that there is sufficient capital to withstand the impact of possible adverse events and/ 
Added : consisting of highly liquid cash instruments, and without market concentration, the valuation 
Removed : or changes in market conditions.  
Added : of the portfolio, combined with the minimum quantitative standards may deliver sufficient 
Removed : Governance  
Added : capital to enable a bank, in adverse market con ditions, to close out or hedge its positions in 
Removed : 108. The Board is responsible for the effective implementation of the stress  tests framework 
Added : a quick and orderly fashion. However, for less well diversified portfolios, for portfolios 
Removed : through appropriate delegation to Senior Management and subject -matter experts across the 
Added : containing less liquid instruments, for portfolios with concentrations in relation to market 
Removed : bank. This framework should be supported by robust governance, processes, methods, and 
Added : turnover, and/or for por tfolios which contain large numbers of positions that are marked -to-
Removed : systems with associated policies and procedures approved by th e Board. The Board is not 
Added : model this is less likely to be the case. In such circumstances, the Central Bank  will consider 
Removed : only responsible for the stress testing policies, but also for oversight of the stress testing 
Added : whether a bank has sufficient capital. To the extent, if there is a shortfall , the Central B ank 
Removed : execution. It is also responsible for the potential measures to mitigate stress scenario 
Added : will react appropriately. This will usually require the bank to reduce its risks and set higher 
Removed : outcomes and the key decisions and actions tak en based on the stress testing results, such 
Added : minimum capital requirements.  
Removed : as the consideration of stress testing outcomes in strategy and capital planning.  
Added :  
Removed : 109. The stakeholders involved in a particular stress testing framework depend on the type 
Added : H. Reputational risk and implicit support  
Removed : of stress tests.  The scenario design, quan tification of impact and the identification of mitigating 
Added :  
Removed : actions will involve a range of subject matter experts across the bank. Stress test -related 
Added : 92. Reputational risk of the bank can be defined as the risk arising from negative 
Removed : activities are not the sole responsibility of the team in charge of preparing the ICAAP or in 
Added : perception on the part of customers, counterparties, shareholders, investors, debt -holders, 
Removed : charge of th e stress testing programme. Rather, the execution of stress tests is a collective 
Added : market analysts, other relevant parties or regulators that can adversely affect a ban k’s ability 
Removed : exercise, whereby numerous stakeholders contribute to the design, measurement, reporting 
Added : to maintain existing, or establish new, business relationships and continued access to 
Removed : and analysis of stress tests.  Stakeholders should include Senior Management and the Board.  
Added : sources of funding (e.g. through the interbank or securitisation markets). Reputational risk is 
Removed : Types of stress test exercises  
Added : multidimensional and reflects the perception of other market participants. Furthermore, it 
Removed : 110. Each bank is required to establish several distinct forms of stress test exercises as 
Added : exists throughout the organisation and exposure to reputational risk is essentially a function  
Removed : described hereunder, however for the purposes of an ICAAP the minimum expectation is to 
Added : 170  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : conduct internal enterprise -wide stress test s and portfolio -level stress tests. Regulatory stress 
Added : of the adequacy of the bank’s internal risk management processes, as well as the manner 
Removed : tests are not acceptable as the only form of internal stress tests:   
Added : and efficiency with which management respon ds to external influences on bank -related 
Removed : a) Internal enterprise -wide stress tests : The purpose of these exercises to 
Added : transactions.  
Removed : analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank’s so lvency, profitability, 
Added : 93. Reputational risk can lead to the provision of implicit support by the bank, which may 
Removed : stability, and capital.  The methodology and scope of such stress tests should 
Added : give rise to credit, liquidity, market and legal risk – all of which can have a negative impact 
Removed : be designed to address the specific risk profile of each bank, and will thus differ 
Added : on a bank’s earn ings, liquidity and capital position. A bank must identify potential sources of 
Removed : from regulatory stress tests. These exercises are generally executed a s top -
Added : reputational risk to which it is exposed. These include the bank’s business lines, liabilities, 
Removed : down exercises, with the objective to capture a wide scope of risks and 
Added : affiliated operations, off -balance sheet vehicles and the markets in which it op erates. The 
Removed : portfolios. Such exercise should support strategic decision related to the risk 
Added : risks that arise must be incorporated into the bank’s risk management processes and 
Removed : appetite of the bank, its risk profile, and its portfolio allocation. Each bank should 
Added : appropriately addressed in its ICAAP and liquidity contingency plans.  
Removed : employ at l east three (3) scenarios in the execution of internal enterprise -wide  
Added : 94. A bank must incorporate the exposures that could give rise to reputational risk into 
Removed : 167  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : its assessments of whether the requirements under the securitisation framework have been 
Removed : stress tests.  
Added : met and the potential adverse impact of providing implicit support.  
Removed : b) Internal portfolio -level stress tests : The purpose of these exercises to 
Added : 95. Reputational risk also may affect a bank’s liabilities, since market confidence and a 
Removed : execute frequent, variable and proactive stress tests on the various portfolios of 
Added : bank’s ability t o fund its business are closely related to its reputation. For instance, to avoid 
Removed : the bank. These stress tests are generally executed as bottom -up exercises, 
Added : damaging its reputation, a bank may call its liabilities even though this might negatively affect 
Removed : with the objective to measure the stress impact at portfolio level accurately. The 
Added : its liquidity profile. This is particularly true for liabilities that are co mponents of regulatory 
Removed : scenarios and the methodologies should be granular and fully tailored to the risk 
Added : capital, such as hybrid/subordinated debt. In such cases, a bank’s capital position is likely to 
Removed : profile of each portfolio. Dete riorating economic circumstances are typically the 
Added : suffer.  
Removed : drivers for conducting unscheduled stress tests on a particular portfolio, for 
Added : 96. Bank management must have appropriate policies in place to identify sources of 
Removed : example a declining outlook in the residential real estate sector would motivate 
Added : reputational risk when entering new markets, pro ducts or lines of activities. In addition, a 
Removed : a stress tests on the commensurate portfolio.  These stress tests can result in 
Added : bank’s stress testing procedures must take account of reputational risk so management has 
Removed : the identification of risks that were not captured by the enterprise -wide stresses. 
Added : a firm understanding of the consequences and second round effects of reputational risk.  
Removed : Consequently, these exercises should support, motivate strategic, and tactical 
Added : 97. Once a bank identifies potential  exposures arising from reputational concerns, it must 
Removed : decisions at portfolio and/or facility level.  
Added : measure the amount of support it might have to provide (including implicit support of 
Removed : c) Regulatory st ress tests : These exercises are commissioned by the Central 
Added : securitisations) or losses it might experience under adverse market conditions. In particular, 
Removed : Bank or other supervisors, to whom banks’ foreign subsidiaries are accountable. 
Added : in order to avoid re putational damages and to maintain market confidence, a bank must 
Removed : These exercises follow the scenarios and methodologies prescribed by 
Added : develop methodologies to measure as precisely as possible the effect of reputational risk in 
Removed : supervisors, which cover most of the bank’s por tfolio. The purpose of such an 
Added : terms of other risk types (e.g. credit, liquidity, market or operational risk) to which it may be  
Removed : exercise is to analyse the impact of stress events on the entire bank in order to 
Added : exposed. This could be accomplished by including reputational risk scenarios in regular 
Removed : assess its solvency, profitability, stability, and ultimately the suitability of its 
Added : stress tests. For instance, non -contractual off -balance sheet exposures could be included in 
Removed : capital. While these exercises are originally designed to inform regulators for 
Added : the stress tests to determine the effect on a bank’s credit, market and li quidity risk profiles. 
Removed : supervision purposes, they should also inform Senior Management and steer 
Added : Methodologies also could include comparing the actual amount of exposure carried on the 
Removed : internal decision -making.  
Added : balance sheet versus the maximum exposure amount held off -balance sheet, that is, the 
Removed : 111. The frequency of stress test exercises should depend on their type, scope, depth, and 
Added : potential amount to which the bank could be exposed.  
Removed : on the wider economic context. Each bank should execute enterprise -wide stress tests based 
Added : 98. A ban k must pay particular attention to the effects of reputational risk on its overall 
Removed : on a set of scenarios regularly at least quarterly is recommend. Each bank should execute 
Added : liquidity position, taking into account both possible increases in the asset side of the balance 
Removed : portfolio -level stress tests more frequently depending on the needs of risk management and 
Added : sheet and possible restrictions on funding, as well as the loss of reputatio n as a result in 
Removed : the business functions.  Market risk stress tests in particular may have to be performed more 
Added : various counterparties’ loss of confidence.  
Removed : frequently.  
Added : 99. In contrast to contractual credit exposures, such as guarantees, implicit support is a 
Removed : 112. The capital impact results of these stress tests should be analysed, compared, 
Added : more subtle form of exposure. Implicit support arises when a bank provides post -sale support 
Removed : incorporated, and presented in the ICAAP. One or several internal enterprise -wide stress test 
Added : to a securitis ation transaction in excess of any contractual obligation. Such non -contractual 
Removed : outcomes should be explicitly incorporated in the capital planning, and presented accordingly 
Added : support exposes a bank to the risk of loss, such as loss arising from deterioration in the credit 
Removed : in the ICAAP capital planning section. The results from all types of stress tests exercise should 
Added : quality of the securitisation’s underlying assets.  
Removed : be employed by Senior Management and the Board to assess the suitability of the bank’s 
Added : 100. By providing implicit support, a bank signals to the market that all of the risks inherent 
Removed : capital.  
Added : in the securitised assets are still held by the organisation and, in effect, had not been 
Removed : Scenarios  
Added : transferred. Since the risk arising from the potential provision of implicit support is not 
Removed : 113. Stress test scenarios should be designed to capture the risks and potential losses 
Added : captu red ex ante under Pillar 1, it must be considered as part of the Pillar 2 process. In 
Removed : appropriately, in coherence with the characteristics of each bank’s risk profile and portfolio. 
Added : addition, the processes for approving new products or strategic initiatives must consider the 
Removed : The scope of these scenarios should cover al l the risks identified as part of the identification 
Added : potential provision of implicit support and must be incorporated in a bank’s  ICAAP.   
Removed : process documented in the ICAAP. At a minimum, the scope of risks should cover strategic 
Added : 171  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : risk, credit risk, market risk, counterparty risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, IRRBB, credit 
Added : I. Market Conduct Risk  
Removed : concentration r isk, funding risk, reputational risk, and climate risk.  
Added :  
Removed : 114. Stress scenarios should lead to a reliable measurement of loss under extreme but 
Added : 101. This Standard will focus on regulatory supervision of market conduct by the Central 
Removed : plausible events.  Such scenarios are essential tool to support risk quantification in providing 
Added : Bank .  Supervision will rely on the supervisory activities identified in the previous chapters 
Removed : impact on Pillar 1 and  Pillar 2. Consequently, the scenario design should be supported by a 
Added : and is supplemented by the follow requirements and activities.  
Removed : clear choice of risk factors and associated shocks. Several types of design are commonly 
Added : 102. The Central Bank has taken steps to strengthen its regulatory and supervisory 
Removed : employed:  
Added : framework regarding mar ket conduct of financial institutions by creating a separate 
Removed : (i) Sensitivity analysis  involve shifting the values of an individual risk factor or 
Added : Consumer Protection Department (CPD) that will have the resources and mandate to focus 
Removed : severa l risk factors by using standardised shocks. Sensitivity analysis is  
Added : on monitoring market conduct, providing regulatory supervision and addressing issues of 
Removed : 168  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : compliance / enforce ment.  It also has a mandate to improve consumer financial literacy 
Removed : employed to estimate the P&L profile and risks to the bank from a range of 
Added : through consumer education programs and outreach activities.  
Removed : shocks.  This is particularly useful to identify non -linear response in the loss 
Added : Consumer Protection Framework  
Removed : profile. For instance, this cou ld include measuring NII with parallel shifts of +/ -
Added : 103. A Consumer Protection Framework (CPF) is a regulatory and supervisory response 
Removed : 50bp, +/ -100bp, +/ -150bp and higher shocks applied to a yield curve.  It also 
Added : designed to prote ct consumers by establishing standards of market conduct for institutional 
Removed : includes measuring expected credit loss (ECL) and capital requirements with 
Added : behaviour to mitigate potential risks of misconduct and protect consumers from harm.  
Removed : standard parallel shocks of +/ -100bp, +/ -200bp, +/ -300bp applied to the PD term 
Added : 104. Market conduct is defined simply as to how a financial institution conducts itself in 
Removed : structure of a given portfolio (e.g. worsening of credit spreads, adverse changes 
Added : the market place in terms of the level of integrity, fairness, and competency that it 
Removed : in interest rates, other macroeconomic or idiosyncratic variables).  
Added : demonstrates in dealing with consumers. It includes the behaviour and actions of a financial 
Removed : (ii) Scenario analysis  involves measuring the combined effect of several risk 
Added : institution in the market place involving such matters as:  
Removed : factors with shocks designed in coherence with an economic narrative affecting 
Added : i. product design, development  
Removed : the bank’s business operations simultaneously. Such narrative should be based 
Added : ii. marketing and sales practices,  
Removed : on an analysis of the current economic conditions, the business environment 
Added : iii. advertising,  
Removed : and the operating conditio ns of the bank.  The scope of events should be broad, 
Added : iv. compliance with laws,  
Removed : consider an appropriate range of risk types, and geographies. The narrative 
Added : v. fulfilling its obligations to customers,  
Removed : should be constructed with a clear sequence of unfolding events leading to (a) 
Added : vi. treatment of customer’s  / dispute resolution,  
Removed : direct risks, (b) second -order risks, and/or (c ) systemic risks, and how these risks 
Added : vii. conflicts of interest,   
Removed : affect the profit and loss profile and risks of the bank based on a scale of shocks 
Added : viii. transparency  and disclosure  
Removed : (e.g. an economic recession coupled with a tightening of market liquidity and 
Added : ix. Market competition, pricing, etc. 
Removed : declining asset prices). The scope of the narrative shou ld take into account the 
Added :  
Removed : economic environment and the features of each portfolio in scope. The 
Added : 105. The superviso ry activities under the CPF are risk -based and requires a 
Removed : calibration of shocks should be supported by rigorous methodologies using (a) 
Added : comprehensive understanding of the retail operations of the financial institutions; the risks 
Removed : historical data and past events, and/or (b) forward -looking assumptions. 
Added : created by the behaviour  of these organis ations, the risks from products and services 
Removed : Practition ers refer to ‘historical scenarios’ and ‘hypothetical scenarios’.  
Added : offered, and how t hese risks are being managed. The risk -based approach assesses the 
Removed : 115. Each bank is expected to continuously monitor and identify new threats, vulnerabilities 
Added : nature of the institution’s business activities and the risks that are inherent to each type of 
Removed : and changes in the environment to assess whether its stress testing scenarios remain 
Added : activity undertaken.  The supervisory framework requires open, transparent and frequent 
Removed : appropriate at le ast quarterly and, if not, adapt them to the new circumstances. The impact of 
Added : flow of quality data and information between the financial institutions and the Central Bank 
Removed : the scenarios is expected to be updated regularly (e.g. quarterly). In case of any material 
Added : that allows CPD to effectively perform up -to-date market conduct assessments.   
Removed : changes, the bank is expected to assess their potential impact on its capital adequacy  over 
Added : Importance of Supervisory Review – Market Conduct  
Removed : the course of the year.  
Added : 106. Many of the supervisory requirements discussed in previous sections of these 
Removed : 116. If the bank forecasts the increase of its capital base (e.g. capital issuances, rights 
Added : Standards fully apply to the supervision of market conduct.  However, supervision of market 
Removed : issues, reduction in the equity, etc.) and the capital planning reflects the proposed changes, 
Added : conduct adds another dimension and perspect ive in regulatory supervision. The additional 
Removed : the bank must perform an additional stress s cenario. In these additional stress scenarios the 
Added : supervisory concerns are highlighte d as follows.  
Removed : bank should analyse the impact under the assumption that the capital increase does not 
Added : Board and Senior Management Oversight  
Removed : materialise. The impact analysis should include management actions and formal trigger points.  
Added : 107. In addition to the previous chapters, it is expected that effective reporting occur 
Removed : Methodology  
Added : quarterly regarding any compliance issues regarding retail operations, analysis of consumer 
Removed : 117. The process o f stress tests should be supported by robust and documented 
Added : complaints / trends and id entification of systemic issues.  Boards should be confident that its 
Removed : methodologies. All models employed in the quantification of stress results should comply with 
Added : retail workers have had the training and qualification to fulfil their responsibilities and 
Removed : the requirements presented in the Central Bank Model Management Standards and Guidance.  
Added : regulatory responsibilities and those effective verifications are carried out.   
Removed : 118. For the measur ement of capital under stress, each bank should employ a dedicated 
Added : Appropriate P olicies, Procedures and Limits:  
Removed : financial model to forecast their financial statements under several economic conditions. Such 
Added : 108. More specifically, market conduct will focus on policies, procedures, practices and 
Removed : projection should be constructed over a minimum of three (3) years, in coherence with the 
Added : related training associated with product design, development, distribution, marketing,  
Removed : most  recent capital plan and with the Central Bank regulatory exercise.  
Added : 172  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : 119. Stress scenarios may be derived from stochastic models or historical events, and can 
Added : advertising and sales.  The Central Bank  will evaluat e the same elements for third parties 
Removed : be developed with varying degrees of precision, depth, and severity, particularly the impact on 
Added : carrying out outsourced retail activities.  
Removed : asset quality, profitability, and capital adequacy.  Each bank should consider three (3) to five 
Added :  
Removed : (5) scenarios (each scenario can have multiple severity levels (i.e. Low, medium, and high). 
Added : Comprehensive Risk Assessment:  
Removed : Although it is expected to consider the supervisory stress tests (“stres s test exercise of the 
Added :  
Removed : Financial Stability Department (FSD)”) as one scenario, it is the bank’s responsibility to define 
Added : Operational Risk:   
Removed : scenarios and sensitivities in the manner that best addresses its situation and to translate them  
Added : 109. The financial institution must have a framework for monitoring, identifying and 
Removed : 169  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : mitigating market conduct risks associatio n with business lines and the products and 
Removed : into risk, loss, and capital figures.  
Added : services offered at the retail level.  This includes identifying risks associated with institutional 
Removed : Use Test  
Added : errors or misconduct.  Risk analysis must consider such activities including product design, 
Removed : 120. Stress tests should support decision -making throughout the bank effectively.  Stress 
Added : development, market ing, pricing, distribution, sales, advertising, disclosure, suitability, 
Removed : tests should be embedded in banks’ business decision -making and risk management process 
Added : affordability, product assumptions and accuracy / method of calculations, fraud, technology 
Removed : at several levels of the organisation. Senior Management and the Board should lead and 
Added : downtime, etc.  Institutions must also evaluate the risks related to third party distributo rs, 
Removed : approve all assumptions, the methodology framework and authorise the use of stress test 
Added : suppliers / contractors.  
Removed : results.  
Added : 110. An important differentiation from prudent supervision is the matter of materiality.  It is 
Removed : 121. Stress tests do not stop with the production of results.  Risk mitigations should always 
Added : not the basis for mitigating conduct risks in the retail market place.  The regulatory concerns 
Removed : be considered in light of the stress severity and like lihood. If no action is deemed necessary, 
Added : are on proactive mitigation of risks wi th the objectives of promoting consumer confident in 
Removed : this should be documented and clearly justified.  
Added : the integrity of the market place, preventing harm done to the consumer and ensuring proper 
Removed : Reverse Stress Test  
Added : dispute resolution and redress where there is harm.  
Removed : 122. In addition to normal stress testing, each bank is expected to conduct reverse stress 
Added : Reputational Risks:   
Removed : tests. Reverse stress tests start with the identification o f a pre -defined outcome where the 
Added : 111. The institution must also evaluate the impact that a risk event in the retail operations 
Removed : bank’s business model becomes non -viable (e.g. through insolvency), or it breaches 
Added : may have on its  reputation in the market place, (a) w hether it is an event of significant mis -
Removed : supervisory compliance minima, e.g. by breaching minimum capital requirements (i.e. the bank 
Added : selling or improper disclosure or calculation errors, these may be systemic issues that will 
Removed : will breach the regulatory capital buffer and minimum capital requirements). The next step is 
Added : attract regulat ory actions, may attract publi c awareness and media attention and (b) w hat 
Removed : to assess which scenarios and shocks lead to that identified outcome. Finally, the objective is 
Added : measures will the institution have in place to mitigate this risk and a ssociated response by 
Removed : to assess whether the likelihood of occurrence is realistic and the impact warrants mitigating 
Added : consumers.  
Removed : actions. If a ban k considers mitigation strategies, e.g. hedging strategies, the bank should 
Added : Monitoring and Reporting:  
Removed : consider if such strategies would be viable. For example, a market that is stressed at a financial 
Added : 112. Institutions are expected to have an adequate syste m for monitoring and reportin g 
Removed : system level may be characterised by a lack of market liquidity and increased cou nterparty 
Added : on their retails operations. The bank’s senior management or board of directors must, ensu re 
Removed : credit risk.  
Added : proper monitoring and reporting including risk analysis and trends in consumer inquires and 
Removed : 123. Effective reverse stress testing is a challenging exercise that requires the involvement 
Added : complaints.  Reporting to the board shou ld evaluate the quality and frequency of training of 
Removed : of all material risk areas across the bank’s subject matter experts, Senior Management, and 
Added : front line staff; the proper qualifications of staff to sell or market products, the meeting of 
Removed : the Board.  
Added : performance indicators, the identification and frequency of bank errors, compliance with 
Removed : 124. Each bank should conduct a reverse stress  test at least once a year. A well -designed 
Added : regulatory require ments and other matters of conduct risk.  
Removed : reverse stress test should also include enough diagnostic information to allow the identification 
Added : 113. Financial institutions will provide timely and accurate information as requested by the 
Removed : of the sources of potential failure. This enables proactive risk management actions and 
Added : Central Bank including complaint information as required by the Central Bank  as per Notice 
Removed : implementation of an appro priate strategy for refined risk monitoring, prevention, and 
Added : 383/2017  regarding setting up a Comp laint Unit.  
Removed : mitigation. The reverse stress test requires each bank to consider scenarios beyond normal 
Added : 114. Financial institutions will provide notice to the Central Bank of any material changes 
Removed : business forecasts and aids identification of events linked to contagion with potential systemic 
Added : and/or important issues that may affect consumers or the retail operations of the financial 
Removed : implica tions. Reverse stress testing has important quantitative and qualitative uses, through  
Added : institution.  
Removed : informing Senior Management of vulnerabilities, and supporting measures to avoid them.  
Added : J. Liquidity risk management and supervision  
Removed : (Please refer to Appendix 3.3) . 
Added :  
Removed :  
Added : 115. The financial market crisis underscores the importance of assessing the potential 
Removed : VIII. ICAAP Submission and Approval  
Added : impact of liquidity risk on capital adequacy in a bank’s ICAAP. Senior management must 
Removed : Submission of the ICAAP report  
Added : consider the relationship between liquidity and capital since liquidity risk can affect  capital 
Removed : 125. The annual ICAAP report should be submitted to the Central Bank on or before the 
Added : adequacy, which, in turn, can aggravate a bank’s liquidity profile.  
Removed : submission dates addressed in Table 1.  
Added : 116. Another facet of liquidity risk management is that a bank must appropriately price the 
Removed : 126. All documents have to be submitted to the respective Central Bank reviewer by 
Added : costs, benefits and risks of liquidity into the internal pricing, performance measurement, and 
Removed : softcopy (submitted in word or pdf format), s ending a copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae . 
Added : new product approval process of all significant business activities.   
Removed : 127. The submission dates below as per Notice 2940/2022 differentiate between (i) national 
Added : 173  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : banks and foreign bank and (ii) size and importance of the banks: ( Table 1 ) 
Added : 117. A bank is expected to be able to thoroughly identify , measure and control liquidity 
Removed : Table  1 - Submission date for ICAAP Report   
Added : risks, especially with regard to complex products and contingent commitments (both 
Removed : 170  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : contractual and  non-contractual). This process must involve the ability to project cash flows 
Removed : Banks  Report for 
Added : arising from assets, liabilities and off -balance sheet items over various time horizons, and 
Removed : FY 2022  Report for FY  2023 
Added : must ensure diversification in both the tenor and source of funding. A bank must uti lise early 
Removed : onwards  
Added : warning indicators to identify the emergence of increased risk or vulnerabilities in its liquidity 
Removed : Large banks: FAB, ENBD, ADCB, DIB, Mashreq, ADIB, CBD  15/03/2022  01/03  
Added : position or funding needs. It must have the ability to control liquidity risk exposure and 
Removed : Other local banks and HSBC, Standard Chartered Bank, 
Added : funding needs, regardless of its organisation structure , within and across legal entities, 
Removed : Citibank, Arab Bank, and Bank of Baroda  31/03/2022  31/03  
Added : business lines, and currencies, taking into account any legal, regulatory and operational 
Removed : Other Foreign Banks  15/04/2022  15/04  
Added : limitations to the transferability of liquidity.  
Removed : Approval of the ICAAP report:  
Added : 118. A bank’s failure to effectively manage intraday liquidity could leave it unable to meet 
Removed : 128. The ICAAP report should be approved by:  
Added : its payment obligations at the time expected, which could lead to liquidity dislocations that 
Removed : (i) Senior Management (including the CRO): The bank should use Appendix 1 – 
Added : cascade quickly across many systems and institutions. As such, the bank’s management of 
Removed : ICAAP – Mandatory disclosure form  (Table 2) and include it as an attachment to 
Added : intraday liquidity risks must be considered as a crucial part of l iquidity risk management. It 
Removed : the ICAAP report ; 
Added : must also actively manage its collateral positions and have the ability to calculate all of its 
Removed : (ii) Board approval: For all local banks, the ICAAP document must be approved by 
Added : collateral positions.  
Removed : the Board or Board risk committee, and Senior Management prior to submission 
Added : 119. While banks typically manage liquidity under “normal” circumstances, they must also 
Removed : to the Central Bank.  The meeting minut es of the Board of Directors meeting 
Added : be prepared to manage li quidity under stressed conditions. A bank must perform stress tests 
Removed : should state the approval of the ICAAP document and challenges that have 
Added : or scenario analyses on a regular basis in order to identify and quantify their exposures to 
Removed : taken place ; and  
Added : possible future liquidity stresses, analysing possible impacts on the bank’s cash flows, 
Removed : (iii) For foreign branches, the ICAAP document should be approved by (a) the 
Added : liquid ity positions, profitability, and solvency. The results of these stress tests must be 
Removed : managing director and/ or relevant highest committee of th e bank in the UAE, 
Added : discussed thoroughly by management, and based on this discussion, must form the basis 
Removed : and by (b) their head office, stating that the ICAAP assumptions and forecasts 
Added : for taking remedial or mitigating actions to limit the bank’s exposures, build up a liquidity 
Removed : are in line with the group’s assumptions, forecasts, and that the group’s Board 
Added : cushion, and adjust its liquidity profile to fit its risk tolerance. The results of stress tests must 
Removed : approves/ endorse the results of the ICAAP.  
Added : also play a key role in shaping the bank’s contingency funding planning, which must outline 
Removed : IX. Internal Control Review  
Added : policies for managing a range of stress events and c learly sets out strategies for addressing 
Removed : 129. The bank’s  internal control structure is essential to the capital assessment process. 
Added : liquidity shortfalls in emergencies.  
Removed : Effective control of the internal capital adequacy assessment process should include an 
Added : 120. The Central Bank’s  reserves the right to set higher liquidity requirements in Pillar 2.  
Removed : independent review and the involvement of both internal audit and external audit (refer to 
Added :  
Removed : Appendix 3.1). Senior Management has a responsibility to ensure that the bank establishes a 
Added : K. Valuation practices  
Removed : system for assessing the full scope of its risks, develops a system to relate risk to the bank’s 
Added :  
Removed : capital level, and establishes a method for monitoring compliance wi th internal policies.  
Added : 121. In order to enhance the supervisory assessment of banks’ valuation  practices, the 
Removed : 130. Internal Audit should perform an audit on the bank’s ICAAP report annually. The report 
Added : Basel Committee published Supervisory guidance for assessing banks’ financial instrument 
Removed : has to be submitted no later than three (3) months after the submission of the ICAAP report to 
Added : fair value practices in April 2009. This guidance applies to all positions that are measured at 
Removed : the bank’s reviewer and in copy to bsed.basel@cbuae.gov.ae . 
Added : fair value and at all times, not only during times of s tress.  
Removed : 131. Internal control functions should perform regular reviews of the risk management 
Added : 122. The characteristics of complex structured products as well as simple but illiquid 
Removed : process to make sure its coherence, validity, and rationality. The review of the ICAAP should 
Added : products, including securitisation transactions, make their valuation inherently difficult due, 
Removed : cover the following:  
Added : in part, to the absence of active and liquid markets, the complexity an d uniqueness of the 
Removed : (i) Ensuring that the ICAAP is complete and suitable as of the bank’s context , 
Added : cash waterfalls, and the links between valuations and underlying risk factors. The absence 
Removed : operational conditions, the reliability of controls behind it;  
Added : of a transparent price from a liquid market means that the valuation must rely on models or 
Removed : (ii) The process of identifying all material risks;  
Added : proxy -pricing methodologies, as well as on expert jud gment. The outputs of such models 
Removed : (iii) Efficiency of the information systems that support the ICAAP;   
Added : and processes are highly sensitive to the inputs and parameter assumptions adopted, which 
Removed : 171  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : may themselves be subject to estimation error and uncertainty. Moreover, calibration of the 
Removed : (iv) Ensuring  that the measurement methodologies in use are suitable  to support the 
Added : valuation methodologies is often complic ated by the lack of readily available benchmarks.  
Removed : ICAAP valuation,  
Added : 123. Therefore, a bank is expected to have adequate governance structures and control 
Removed : (v) Ensuring the accuracy, and comprehensive of the data input to the ICAAP;  
Added : processes for fair valuing exposures for risk management and financial reporting purposes. 
Removed : (vi) Rational behind the ICAAP output and assumptions in use;  
Added : The valuation governance structur es and related processes must be embedded in the overall 
Removed : (vii) Rational and suitability of stress te sts and analysis of assumptions;  
Added : governance structure of the bank, and consistent for both risk management and reporting 
Removed : (viii) Consolidation of the ICAAP outcomes with the risk management  (e.g., limit 
Added : purposes. The governance structures and processes are expected to explicitly cover the role 
Removed : setting and monitoring); and  
Added : of the board and se nior management. In addition, the board must receive reports from senior 
Removed : (ix) Rational of the capital plan and internal capital targets.  
Added : management on the valuation oversight and valuation model performance issues that are  
Removed : 132. In addition, the review should cover the integrity and valid ity of regulatory data 
Added : 174  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : submitted to the Central Bank during the course of the year relating to Pillar  1 capital 
Added : brought to senior management for resolution, as well as all significant changes to valuation 
Removed : requirements, which should address, but not be limited to the following:  
Added : policies.  
Removed : (i) Appropriate classification of risk -weighted assets (RWA);  
Added : 124. A bank must also have clear and robust governance structures for the production, 
Removed : (ii) Appropriate i nclusion of the off -balance sheet values and the application of credit 
Added : assignment and verification of financial instrument valuations. Policies must ensure that the 
Removed : conversion factors (CCF); and  
Added : approvals of all valuation methodologies are well documented. In addition,  policies and 
Removed : (iii) Appropriate credit risk mitigation (CRM) methodology application and values.  
Added : procedures must set forth the range of acceptable practices for the initial pricing, marking -
Removed : 133. The role and validity of internal control functions are also important and sho uld be 
Added : to-market/model, valuation adjustments and periodic independent revaluation. New product 
Removed : verified with regard to other topics. For example:  
Added : approval processes (which has to be established in the first  place) must include all internal 
Removed : (i) All risk quantification methodologies and models must be subject to independent 
Added : stakeholders relevant to risk measurement, risk management, and the assignment and 
Removed : validation (internal/ external); and  
Added : verification of valuations of financial instruments.  
Removed : (ii) Internal Audit should perform an independent review of the bank’s capital 
Added : 125. A bank’s control processes for testing and reporting valuations must be consistently 
Removed : framewo rk implementation every year in accordance with the Capital Standards.  
Added : applied across the firm and integrated with risk measurement and management processes. 
Removed : If the Central Bank is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by the 
Added : In particular, valuation controls must be applied consistently across similar instruments 
Removed : bank’s Internal Audit function, the Central Bank may require an external review.  
Added : (risks) and consistent across business lines (books). These controls must be su bject to 
Removed : X. Frequently -Asked Questions (FAQ)  
Added : internal audit. Regardless of the booking location of a new product, reviews and approval of 
Removed : Question 1 : What defines independent validation?  
Added : valuation methodologies must be guided by a minimum set of considerations. Furthermore, 
Removed : Answer: Independent validation can be performed by an independent function of the bank.  However, in 
Added : the valuation/new product approval process must be supported by a transparent, well -
Removed : some instances an external validation/ review is required. For large banks, external valid ations are 
Added : documented inventory of acceptable valuation methodologies that are specific to products 
Removed : strongly encouraged, if not explicitly required.  
Added : and businesses. The Board must be familiar with and approve the basic assumptions behind 
Removed : Question 2 : What are sustainable business model criteria?  
Added : these methodologies.  
Removed : Answer : Sustainable business models may be defined in different ways. For the purpose of this 
Added : 126. In order to establish and verify valuat ions for instruments and transactions in which it 
Removed : guidance, a bank will be considered to have a sustainable business model if it meets all the following 
Added : engages, a bank must have adequate capacity, including during periods of stress. This 
Removed : criteria:  
Added : capacity must be commensurate with the importance, riskiness and size of these exposures 
Removed : (i) The bank generates strong and stable returns, which are acceptable given its 
Added : in the context of the business profile of the bank. In addition, for those exposures that 
Removed : risk appetite and funding structure;  
Added : represent material risk, a bank is expected to have the capacity to produce valuations using 
Removed : (ii) The bank does not have any material asset concentrations or unsustainable  
Added : alternative methods that cannot just solely rely on the valuations provided by its counterparts 
Removed : concentrated sources of income;   
Added : in the e vent that primary inputs and approaches become unreliable, unavailable or not 
Removed : 172  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : relevant due to market discontinuities or illiquidity. A bank must test and review the 
Removed : (iii) The bank has a strong competitive position in its chosen markets and its strategy 
Added : performance of its models under stress conditions so that it understands the limitations of  
Removed : is likely to reinforce this strength;  
Added : the models under stress conditions.  
Removed : (iv) The bank’s forecasts are based on plausible assumptions about the future 
Added : 127. The relevance and reliability of valuations is directly related to the quality and 
Removed : business environment; and  
Added : reliability of the inputs. Where values are determined to be in an active market, a bank must 
Removed : (v) The bank’s strategic plans are appropriate given the current business model and 
Added : maximise the use of relevant observable in puts and minimise the use of unobservable inputs 
Removed : management’s execution capabilities.  
Added : when estimating fair value using a valuation technique. However, where a market is deemed 
Removed : Question 3 : What is the definition of model?  
Added : inactive, observable inputs or transactions may not be relevant, such as in a forced 
Removed : Answer: A quantitative method, system, or approach that applies statistical, economic, financial, or 
Added : liquidation or distress sale, or  transactions may not be observable, such as when markets 
Removed : mathematical theories, techniques, and assumptions to process input data into quantitative estimates.  
Added : are inactive. In such cases, accounting fair value guidance provides assistance on what must 
Removed : Question 4 : Who should be the owner of ICAAP, Finance or Risk Management?  
Added : be considered, but may not be determinative. In assessing whether a source is reliable and 
Removed : Answer: Multiple committees and working groups have to be involved in the ICA AP.  However, Risk 
Added : relevant, a ba nk must consider, among other things:  
Removed : Management should have the ultimate responsibility for the final ICAAP outcome report, the ICAAP 
Added : i. The frequency and availability of the prices/quotes;  
Removed : being in substance a risk evaluation process. The Board must approve the ICAAP, its outcomes, and 
Added : ii. Whether those prices represent actual regularly occurring transactions on an arm's 
Removed : the proposed mitigation actions.  
Added : length basis;  
Removed : Question 5: The bank uses multi -period ST scenarios over three years.  Which reporting year 
Added : iii. The breadth of the distribution of the data and whether it is gen erally available to 
Removed : (Y1/2/3) shall be reported in the Pillar 2 template in Appendix 2 – ICAAP: Executive summary 
Added : the relevant participants in the market;  
Removed : table (Table 3)?  
Added : iv. The timeliness of the information relative to the frequency of valuations;  
Removed : Answer: Banks using multi -period stress scenarios should includ e the most severe period of the most 
Added : v. The number of independent sources that produce the quotes/prices;  
Removed : severe stress test results (reverse stress scenarios not considered). All other banks that perform a 
Added : vi. The maturity of the market; and  
Removed : simpler point in time or 1 -period stress scenario should include the most severe ST results (reverse 
Added : vii. The similarity bet ween the financial instrument sold in a transaction and the 
Removed : stress scenarios not considered). In addition, the evaluation of Pillar 2 risks and stress test impact as of 
Added : instrument held by the bank.  
Removed : the reporting date is mandatory for all banks.  
Added :  
Removed : Question 6 : Does the bank have to present the capital contingency plan as part of ICAAP report?, 
Added :  
Removed : If the bank plans to inject capital, is it required to have two capital plans, one with and a second 
Added :   
Removed : plan without capital injection?  
Added : 175  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : Answer:  
Added : L. Sound stress testing practices  
Removed : (i) The bank must have a Board -approved capital contingency policy. The actual 
Added :  
Removed : capital contingency plan as a response to the ICAAP results has to be in line 
Added : 128. In order to strengthen banks’ stress testing practices, as well as improve supervision 
Removed : with the capital contingency policy and the ICAAP report should contain at least 
Added : of those practices, in October 2018 the Basel Committee published Principles for sound 
Removed : an overview of the capital contingency plan.  
Added : stress testing practices and supervision. Improvements in stress testing alone cannot 
Removed : (ii) If the bank plan to change its capital base, the bank should have one capital 
Added : address all risk management weaknesses, but as part of a comprehensive approach, stress 
Removed : plan, which reflects the capital injections (and reflects the source of injection). 
Added : testing has a leading role to play in strengthening bank corporate governance and the 
Removed : Injections can be considered if approved by Senior Management, if part of the 
Added : resilience of individual banks and the financial system.  
Removed : official bank’s capit al plan and if the Central Bank is informed on the planned 
Added : 129. Stress testing is an important tool that is used by banks as part of their internal risk 
Removed : capital injections. A stress test scenario has to show the impact if the injections 
Added : management that alerts bank management to adverse unexpecte d outcomes related to a 
Removed : do not materialise.  
Added : broad variety of risks, and provides an indication to banks of how much capital might be 
Removed : Question 7 : What is the ICAAP submission timeframe and can an extension be granted?  
Added : needed to absorb losses if large shocks occur. Moreover, stress testing supplements other 
Removed : Answer: The ICAAP submission should comply with the schedule specified in Section VIII - ICAAP 
Added : risk management approaches and measures. It plays a p articularly important role in:  
Removed : Submission and Approval. An extension of the ICAAP report submission date will only be granted in 
Added : i. Providing forward looking assessments of risk,  
Removed : exceptional cases, by the bank’s Central Bank reviewer.  
Added : ii. Overcoming limitations of models and historical data,  
Removed : Question 8 : Can banks implement the IRB methodology in full (i.e. A -IRB) while reporting credit  
Added : iii. Supporting internal and external communication,  
Removed : 173  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : iv. Feeding into capital and liquidity planning procedures,  
Removed : risk under the ICAAP, and is it mandatory?  
Added : v. Informing the s etting of a banks’ risk tolerance,  
Removed : Answer: The bank should apply whichever approach is deemed appropriate for their size and complexity, 
Added : vi. Addressing existing or potential, firm -wide risk concentrations, and  
Removed : as the ICAAP is an internal pr ocess. The evaluation of whether the Pillar 1 capital is adequate for the 
Added : vii. Facilitating the development of risk mitigation or contingency plans  across a range 
Removed : bank's risk is mandatory. The F -IRB approach is an accepted approach. With the implementation of 
Added : of stressed conditions.  
Removed : IFRS9 banks have a PD for every exposure, which may be used to calculate the F -IRB ca pital. It is, 
Added : 130. Stress testing is especially important af ter long periods of benign risk, when the 
Removed : however, not mandatory to fully implement the F -IRB approach. Comparing regulatory capital 
Added : fading memory of negative economic conditions can lead to complacency and the under -
Removed : requirements with those determined using the F -IRB does indicate to what extent regulatory Pillar 1 
Added : pricing  of risk, and when innovation leads to the rapid growth of new products for which there 
Removed : capital requirements may be insufficient. The compa rison between the F -IRB approach and the 
Added : is limited or no loss data.  
Removed : regulatory standardised approach for credit risk has to be performed on an asset class level and the 
Added : 131. Stress  testing must form an integral part of the overall governance and risk 
Removed : greater capital requirement should be applied in the ICAAP.  
Added : management culture of the bank. Board and senior management involvement in setting 
Removed : The F -IRB should follow the floor on the PD of 0.03% a nd apply a fixed 45% LGD. The bank may 
Added : stress testing objectives, defining scenarios, discussing the results of stress tests, assessing 
Removed : consider certain eligible collateral to reduce the LGD accordingly. The bank shall not use own 
Added : poten tial actions and decision making is critical in ensuring the appropriate use of stress 
Removed : estimations of the LGD under the F -IRB. 
Added : testing in banks’ risk governance and capital planning. Senior management must take an 
Removed : Question 9 : Is it required to calculate a capital charge against the financial ris ks from climate 
Added : active interest in the development and operation of stress testing. The results of  stress tests 
Removed : change in the ICAAP? Is any calculation methodology prescribed for this?  
Added : must contribute to strategic decision making and foster internal debate regarding 
Removed : Answer: The bank should understand risks related to climate change and their impact on the 
Added : assumptions, such as the cost, risk and speed with which new capital could be raised or that 
Removed : sustainability of the bank and the risks of its business strategy. Banks sho uld develop adequate 
Added : positions could be hedged or sold. Board and senior management invo lvement in the stress -
Removed : methodologies to quantify the risk with models sophistication depending on size and business model. 
Added : testing program is essential for its effective operation.  
Removed : Stress tests and scenario analysis should be explored. Banks should consider assessing their green 
Added : 132. Therefore, a bank’s capital planning process must incorporate rigorous, forward -
Removed : asset ratio (GAR) which measures a b ank's “green assets” as a share of its total assets as an initial tool. 
Added : looking stress testing that identifies possible events or changes in market conditions that 
Removed : The risk identification process should determine whether the risk arising from climate change is a 
Added : could adversely have an impact  on the bank. Banks, in their ICAAPs  must examine future 
Removed : material capital risk for the bank.  
Added : capital resources and capital requirements under adverse scenarios. In particular, the results 
Removed : Question 10 : How commercial / non -commercial subs idiaries have be treated as part of the 
Added : of forward -looking stress testing must be considered when evaluating the adequacy of a 
Removed : ICAAP exercise? And how to treat investments in insurance subsidiaries?  
Added : bank’s capital buffer. Capital adequacy must be assess ed under stressed conditions against 
Removed : Answer: One of the key components of the ICAAP is to determine whether the capital requirement under 
Added : a variety of capital ratios, including regulatory ratios. In addition, the possibility that a crisis 
Removed : the Standardised Approach is adequately ref lecting the risk. Additional risks arising from investment in 
Added : impairs the ability of even very healthy banks to raise funds at reasonable cost must be 
Removed : subsidiaries should be addressed and assessed in the ICAAP. The bank should consider any subsidiary 
Added : considered.  
Removed : including commercial, non -commercial, and insurance subsidiaries.  
Added : 133. In addition, a b ank must develop methodologies to measure the effect of reputational 
Removed : Question 11 : The ICAAP has t o be performed on consolidated level.  Is it an additional 
Added : risk arising from other risk types, namely credit, liquidity, market and other risks that they 
Removed : requirement to perform the ICAAP also at solo level or should the ICAAP also have a solo -level 
Added : may be exposed to in order to avoid reputational damages and in order to maintain market 
Removed : analysis?  
Added : confidence. This could be done by including reputational risk scenarios in regular stress 
Removed : Answer: The ICAAP needs to address additional risks that are not covered (or not fully cover ed) under 
Added : tests. For instance, AML sanctions.  
Removed : Pillar  1. The ICAAP is expected to assess capital adequacy for the bank on a stand -alone basis, at 
Added : 134. A bank must carefully assess the risks with respect to commitments to off -balance 
Removed : regulatory consolidated level, and for the entities of the group. The ICAAP should evaluate the capital 
Added : sheet vehicles and third -party firms related to st ructured credit securities and the possibility  
Removed : requirement and capital adequacy of the ban k at group level, following the regulatory consolidation. 
Added : 176  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : However, each bank should analyse whether additional risks arise from the group structure of the bank. 
Added : that assets will need to be taken on -balance sheet for reputational reasons. Therefore, in its 
Removed : The ICAAP guidance lays out the importance to consider the group structure when evaluating the banks' 
Added : stress -testing programme, a bank must include scenarios assessing the size and soundness 
Removed : capital adequacy, in Section IV "ICAAP Methodology, Scope and Use Test”. The bank should be in a 
Added : of such vehicles and firm s relative to its own financial, liquidity and regulatory capital 
Removed : position to report, measure and manage risks arising from its subsidiaries, branches, group entities and 
Added : positions. This analysis must include structural, solvency, liquidity and other risk issues, 
Removed : from the consolidation process. The ICAAP shoul d reflect the results of the bank’s analysis. 
Added : including the effects of covenants and triggers.  
Removed : Consequently, the analysis should consider all relevant levels of the group structure (consolidated, solo, 
Added : 135. The Central Bank  will assess the effectiveness of banks’ stress testing programme 
Removed : entity level, and including significant affiliate investments).  Additional risks may have to be addres sed 
Added : in identifying relevant vulnerabilities. The Central Bank  will review the key assumptions 
Removed : as a specific additional capital add -on. 
Added : driving stress -testing results and challenge their continuing relevance in view of existing and 
Removed : Question 12 : Does the bank require a separate capital plan approved by the Board, or is it 
Added : potentially changing market conditi ons. The Central Bank  will challenge the banks on how 
Removed : sufficient to have the approved ICAAP that includes the capital plan?   
Added : stress testing is used and the way it affects decision -making. Where this assessment reveals 
Removed : 174  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : material shortcomings, the Central Bank  will require a bank to detail a plan of corrective 
Removed : Answer: The capital management policy and the ICAA P complement each other. The policy sets the 
Added : action  
Removed : framework and the capital management plan describes the capital management strategy and the steps 
Added : VI. Other aspec ts of the supervisory review process  
Removed : to achieve it in compliance with the policy. The capital management plan can be a separate document. 
Added :  
Removed : However, the  ICAAP report should display the full picture, including an overview of the capital 
Added : Supervisory transparency and accountability  
Removed : management policy and the capital management plan related to the ICAAP outcomes.  
Added :  
Removed : Question 13 : If a bank reports regulatory operational risk capital requirements using the B IA, can 
Added : 136. The supervision of banks is not an exact science, and therefore, discretionary 
Removed : the Standardised Approach be used to quantify the potential additional operational risk charge 
Added : elements within the supervisory review process are inevitable. The Central Bank  will carry 
Removed : under Pillar 2 if the capital requirement is higher under the SA compared to the BIA?  
Added : out its obligations in a transparent and accountable manner. The Central Bank  will make 
Removed : Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank must determin e the most adequate methodology 
Added : publicly available the criteria (defined in the accompanying Guidance) to be used in the 
Removed : to quantify the extent to which regulatory capital requirements for operational risk fail to adequately 
Added : review of banks’ internal capital assessments. If the Central Bank  chooses to set higher 
Removed : address the true extent of its potential operational risk losses.  
Added : minimum capital requirements or to set categories of capital in excess of the regulatory 
Removed : Question 14 : Can the bank use the market risk stress t est template as shared for Central Bank 
Added : minimum, factors that may be considered in doing so will be publicly available. Where the 
Removed : Econometric Stress test exercise in its ICAAP?  
Added : capital requirements are set above the minimum for an in dividual bank, the Central Bank  will 
Removed : Answer: The bank should determine the most adequate approach to quantify its risks. The quantification 
Added : explain to the bank the risk characteristics specific to the bank, which resulted in the 
Removed : methodology should obtain internal approval. The methodology needs  to be explained, validated and 
Added : requirement and any remedial action necessary.  
Removed : reasoned in detail as part of the methodology development and continuous model monitoring process.  
Added : Supervisory review process for securitisation  
Removed : Question 15 : Does the Internal Audit (IA) review required under Section IX - Internal Control 
Added :  
Removed : Review contradict the requireme nt in Appendix 3.4, which requires banks to disclose the Internal 
Added : 137. Further to the Pillar 1 principle th at banks must take account of the economic 
Removed : Audit findings in the ICAAP report?  
Added : substance of transactions in their determination of capital adequacy, the Central Bank  will 
Removed : Answer: The Central Bank is of the opinion that IA is not suffering a conflict of interest by reviewing a 
Added : monitor, as appropriate, whether banks have done so adequately. As a result, regulatory 
Removed : bank’s ICAAP and by disclosing its general findi ngs and findings specific to the ICAAP in the ICAAP 
Added : capital treatments for specific s ecuritisation exposures might differ from those specified in 
Removed : report. IA is involved twofold in the ICAAP report:  
Added : Pillar 1 of the Framework, particularly in instances where the general capital requirement 
Removed : (i) IA has to perform a review of the ICAAP (process) periodically as part of the 
Added : would not adequately and sufficiently reflect the risks to which an individual banking 
Removed : audit function.  
Added : organisation is e xposed.  
Removed : (ii) IA has to perform the prescribed review for each ICAAP, to  be submitted within 
Added : 138. Amongst other things, the Central Bank  will review where relevant a bank’s own 
Removed : 3 months of the submission.  
Added : assessment of its capital needs and how that has been reflected in the capital calculation as 
Removed : The ICAAP report shall contain the most recent (available) audit findings, their status, and actions taken.  
Added : well as the documentation of certain transactions to determine whether the capital 
Removed : (Note, that in the Capital Standards, para 13 under Introduction and Scope requires an annual revi ew of 
Added : requirements accord with the risk profile (e.g. substitution clauses). The Central Bank  will 
Removed : the capital framework.)  
Added : also review the manner in which banks have addressed the issue of maturity mismatch in 
Removed : Question 16 : Why does the Standard/ Guidance not address any specifics related to Islamic 
Added : relation to retained positions in their economic capital calculation s. In particular, they will be 
Removed : banking?  
Added : vigilant in monitoring for the structuring of maturity mismatches in transactions to artificially 
Removed : Answer: The ICAAP is an internal process and the bank should determine the most adequate 
Added : reduce capital requirements. Additionally, the Central Bank  will review the bank’s economic 
Removed : methodology to quantify risks arising for Islamic banks in general and Islamic banking products 
Added : capital assessment of actual correl ation between assets in the pool and how they have 
Removed : specifically.  
Added : reflected that in the calculation. Where the Central Bank  considers that a bank’s approach is 
Removed : Question 17 : Being a branch of an international bank, is a third party validation required, as this 
Added : not adequate, they will take appropriate action. Such action might include denying or 
Removed : is already conducted at the parent company/ group level covering risk frameworks, sy stems and 
Added : reducing capital relief i n the case of originated assets, or increasing the capital required 
Removed : models?  
Added : against securitisation exposures acquired.  
Removed : Answer: Branches and subsidiaries of foreign banks are required to validate the risk valuation 
Added :  
Removed : methodologies deployed in their UAE operations. If the branch or subsidiary is applying head office 
Added :  
Removed : methodologies, these should nevertheless be  validated on branch or subsidiary level. In addition, the 
Added :   
Removed : branch or subsidiary has to have a full understanding of the applied methodologies as it cannot fully rely 
Added : 177  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed : on the head office.    
Added : Significance of risk transfer  
Removed : 175  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added :  
Removed : XI. Appendices  
Added : 139. Securitisation transactions may be carried out for purposes other than credit risk 
Removed : Appendix 1 - ICAAP: Mandatory disclosure form (Table 2)  
Added : transfer (e.g. funding). Whe re this is the case, there might still be a limited transfer of credit 
Removed : 134. All banks are required to disclose the following information as a separate cover sheet 
Added : risk. However, for an originating bank to achieve reductions in capital requirements, the risk 
Removed : when submitting the ICAAP report to the Central Bank:  
Added : transfer arising from a securitisation has to be deemed significant by the Central Bank . If the 
Removed : Table 2 - ICAAP Mandatory Details  
Added : risk transfer is considered insufficient or non -existent, the Central Bank  will require the 
Removed : Bank  XXXX  
Added : application of a higher capital requirement than prescribed under Pillar 1 or, alternatively, 
Removed : Date  20XX  
Added : may deny a bank from obtaining any capital relief from the securitisations. Therefore, the 
Removed : Contact point name and contact details  [name, email, phone number]  
Added : capital relief that can be achieved will correspond to  the amount of credit risk that is 
Removed : Scope of ICAAP (entities included)  [legal entities in scope]  
Added : effectively transferred. The following includes a set of examples where the Central Bank will 
Removed : I (full name) in my role as CRO hereby confirm the following on the ICAAP report:  
Added : have concerns about the degree of risk transfer, such as retaining or repurchasing significant 
Removed : (i) We have identified all material risks and allocated capital 
Added : amounts of risk or “cherry picki ng” the exposures to be transferred via a securitisation.  
Removed : accordingly  [tick box if 
Added : 140. Retaining or repurchasing significant securitisation exposures, depending on the 
Removed : completed]  
Added : proportion of risk held by the originator, might undermine the intent of a securitisation to 
Removed : (ii) We have set out a 3 -5 year forward looking capital plan based on 
Added : transfer credit risk. Sp ecifically, the Central Bank  might expect that a significant portion of 
Removed : the strategic/ financial plan of the bank  [tick box if 
Added : the credit risk and of the nominal value of the pool be transferred to at least one independent 
Removed : completed]  
Added : third party at inception and on an ongoing basis. Where banks repurchase risk for market  
Removed : (iii) We have implemented a 3 -5 year forward -looking stress test and 
Added : making purposes, the Central Bank  could find it appropriate for an originator to buy part of a 
Removed : measured the impact on the capital position of the bank  [tick box if 
Added : transaction but not, for example, to repurchase a whole tranche. The Central Bank  will expect 
Removed : completed]  
Added : that where positions have been bought for market making purposes, these positions must 
Removed : (iv) The ICAAP has been 
Added : be resold within an appropriate period, thereby remaining true to the initial intention to 
Removed : signed off by:  [relevant details from Board committee (Managing 
Added : transfer risk.  
Removed : Director /highest committee for foreign banks)]  
Added : 141. Another implication of realising only a non -significant risk transfer, especially if related 
Removed : (v) The ICAAP has been challenged/ by the Board  (highest committee 
Added : to good quality unrated exposures, i s that both the poorer quality unrated assets and most 
Removed : for foreign banks) and the nature of the challenge will be communicated to 
Added : of the credit risk embedded in the exposures underlying the securitised transaction are likely 
Removed : the Central Bank  [tick box if 
Added : to remain with the originator. Accordingly, and depending on the outcome of the supervisory 
Removed : completed]  
Added : review process , the Central Bank  will increase the capital requirement for particular 
Removed : CRO signature  [signature]  
Added : exposures or even increase the overall level of capital the bank is required to hold.  
Removed : Date  [date]  
Added : Market innovations  
Removed :  
Added : 142. As the minimum capital requirements for securitisation may not be able to addr ess 
Removed :   
Added : all potential issues, the Central Bank  will consider new features of securitisation transactions 
Removed :  
Added : as they arise. Such assessments would include reviewing the impact new features may have 
Removed :  
Added : on credit risk transfer and, where appropriate, the Central Bank  will be expected to take 
Removed :  
Added : appropriate action under Pillar 2. A Pillar 1 response may be formulated to take account of 
Removed :  
Added : market innovations. Such a response may take the form of a set of operational requirements 
Removed :  
Added : and/or a specific capital treatment.  
Removed :    
Added : Risk evaluation and management  
Removed : 176  CBUAE Classification: Public  
Added : 143. A bank must conduct analyses of the underlying risks when investing in the structured 
Removed : Appendix 2 - ICAAP Executive Summary  
Added : products and must not solely rely on the external credit ratings assigned to securitisation 
Removed : Table 3 - ICAAP Executive Summary  
Added : exposures by the credit rating agencies. A bank must  be aware that external ratings are a 
Removed :  
Added : useful starting point for credit analysis, but are no substitute for full and proper understanding 
Removed :  
Added : of the underlying risk, especially where ratings for certain asset classes have a short history 
Removed : 135. The ICAAP: Executive Summary Table (Table 3) above should be used for the ICAAP 
Added : or have been shown to b e volatile. Moreover, a bank also must conduct credit analysis of 
Removed : report for the FY2022 ICAAP report. Each bank is required to download the most current 
Added : the securitisation exposure at acquisition and on an ongoing basis. It must also have in place 
Removed : reporting template prior to finalizing the ICAAP report fro m the CBUAE IRR SYSTEM 
Added : the necessary quantitative tools, valuation models and stress tests of sufficient sophisticatio n 
Removed : (BRF/BASEL Portal) ( CBUAE IRR ), in the live environment for banks:  
Added : to reliably assess all relevant risks.  
Removed : (i) Detailed reporting template including description (this report must be available 
Added : 144. When assessing securitisation exposures, a bank must ensure that it fully 
Removed : upon request); and  
Added : understands the credit quality and risk characteristics of the underlying exposures in 
Removed : (ii) Executive Summary report (should form part of the ICAAP report Executive 
Added : structured credit transactions, including any risk con centrations. In addition, a bank must  
Removed : Summary) . 
Added : 178  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Removed :   
Added : review the maturity of the exposures underlying structured credit transactions relative to the 
Removed :  As of the reporting date of the ICAAP Pillar 1 in AED '000 Pillar 1 in AED '000 Pillar 2 in AED '000
Added : issued liabilities in order to assess potential maturity mismatches.  
Removed : Date Reporting date of the ICAAP, 
Added : 145. A bank must track credit risk in securitisation expos ures at the transaction level and 
Removed : e.g. 31/12/2022year with the most severe 
Added : across securitisations exposures within each business line and across business lines. It must 
Removed : impact for the most severe 
Added : produce reliable measures of aggregate risk. A bank also must track all meaningful 
Removed : ST scenario, e.g. 31/12/2024. year with the most severe 
Added : concentrations in securitisation exposures, s uch as name, product or sector concentrations, 
Removed : impact for the most severe 
Added : and feed this information to firm -wide risk aggregation systems that track, for example, credit 
Removed : ST scenario, e.g. 31/12/2024. 
Added : exposure to a particular obligor.  
Removed : Effective Capital Conservation Buffer 
Added : 146. A bank’s own assessment of risk needs to be based on a comprehensive 
Removed : (CCB) (standard CCB of 2.5% + D-SIB Buffer 
Added : understan ding of the structure of the securitisation transaction. It must identify the various 
Removed : + CCyB) in percentage points (in %)2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Added : types of triggers, credit events and other legal provisions that may affect the performance of 
Removed : Total Pillar 1                                                      -                                                   -                                                   -   
Added : its on - and off -balance sheet exposures and integrate these triggers and pr ovisions into its 
Removed : Other Pillar 2 capital requirements
Added : funding/liquidity, credit and balance sheet management. The impact of the events or triggers 
Removed : Total Pillar 2 -                                              
Added : on a bank’s liquidity and capital position must also be considered.  
Removed : Minimum regulatory CAR requirement
Added : 147. Banks either underestimated or did not anticipate that a market -wide disrupt ion could 
Removed : (incl. CCB)10.50% 10.50% 10.50%
Added : prevent them from securitising warehoused or pipeline exposures and did not anticipate the 
Removed : Actual CAR Ratio
Added : effect this could have on liquidity, earnings and capital adequacy. As part of its risk 
Removed : Total Capital Surplus/ deficit (Measured
Added : management processes, a bank must consider and, where appropriate, mark -to-market 
Removed : including capital buffer requirements)                                                     -                                                   -                                                   -   
Added : warehoused positions, as well as those in the pipeline, regardless of the probability of 
Removed : Minimum CET1 regulatory requirement
Added : securitising the exposures. It must consider scenarios that may prevent it from securitising 
Removed : (incl. CCB)7.00% 7.00% 7.00%
Added : its assets as part of its stress testing and identify the p otential effect of such exposures on 
Removed : Actual CET1 Ratio
Added : its liquidity, earnings and capital adequacy.  
Removed : CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure
Added : 148. A bank must develop prudent contingency plans specifying how it would respond to 
Removed : includes capital buffer requirements)-                                                   -                                              -                                              
Added : funding, capital and other pressures that arise when access to securitisation markets is 
Removed : Minimum regulatory CAR requirement
Added : reduced. The contingency plans must also address how the bank would address valuation 
Removed : (excl. CCB)10.50% 10.50%
Added : challenges for potentially illiquid positions held for sale or for trading. The risk measures, 
Removed : Actual CAR Ratio under ST
Added : stress testing results and contingency plans must be incorporated into the ban k’s risk 
Removed : Additive impact of ST on CAR
Added : management processes and its ICAAP, and must result in an appropriate level of capital 
Removed : Surplus /(Deficit, i.e., additional capital
Added : under Pillar 2 in excess of the minimum requirements.  
Removed : required)                                                 -                                                   -   
Added : 149. A bank that employs risk mitigation techniques must fully understand the risks to be 
Removed : Minimum regulatory CET1 requirement
Added : mitigated, the poten tial effects of that mitigation and whether or not the mitigation is fully 
Removed : (excl. CCB)7.00% 7.00%
Added : effective. This is to help ensure that the bank does not understate the true risk in its 
Removed : Actual CET1 Ratio under ST
Added : assessment of capital. In particular, it must consider whether it would provide support to t he 
Removed : Additive impact of ST on CET1 ratio
Added : securitisation structures in stressed scenarios due to the reliance on securitisation as a 
Removed : CET1 capital surplus/ deficit (measure
Added : funding tool.  
Removed : includes capital buffer requirements)-                                              -                                              Capital requirements under Business as Usual
Added : Provision of implicit support  
Removed : Stress TestingTop 3 Pillar 2 capital requirements
Added :  
Added : 150. Support to a transaction, whether contractual (i.e. credit enhancements provided at 
Added : the inception of a securitised tr ansaction) or non -contractual (implicit support) can take 
Added : numerous forms. For instance, contractual support can include over collateralisation, credit 
Added : derivatives, spread accounts, contractual recourse obligations, subordinated notes, credit 
Added : risk mitigants  provided to a specific tranche, the subordination of fee or interest income or 
Added : the deferral of margin income, and clean -up calls that exceed 10 percent of the initial 
Added : issuance. Examples of implicit support include the purchase of deteriorating credit risk  
Added : exposures from the underlying pool, the sale of discounted credit risk exposures into the pool 
Added : of securitized credit risk exposures, the purchase of underlying exposures at above market 
Added : price or an increase in the first loss position according to the dete rioration of the underlying 
Added : exposures.  
Added : 151. The provision of implicit (or non -contractual) support, as opposed to contractual credit 
Added : support (i.e. credit enhancements), raises significant supervisory concerns. For traditional 
Added : securitisation structures the provision of implicit support undermines the  clean break criteria,  
Added : 179  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Added : which when satisfied would allow banks to exclude the securitised assets from regulatory 
Added : capital calculations. For synthetic securitisation structures, it negates the significance of risk 
Added : transference. By providing implicit support, banks signal to the market that the risk is still with 
Added : the bank and has not in effect been transferred. The bank’s capital calculation therefore 
Added : understates the true risk. Accordingly, the Central Bank  will take appropriate action when a 
Added : banking organisati on provides implicit support.  
Added : 152. When a bank has been found to provide implicit support to a securitisation, it will be 
Added : required to hold capital against all of the underlying exposures associated with the structure 
Added : as if they had not been securitised. It will  also be required to disclose publicly that it was 
Added : found to have provided non -contractual support, as well as the resulting increase in the 
Added : capital charge (as noted above). The aim is to require banks to hold capital against 
Added : exposures for which they assume  the credit risk, and to discourage them from providing non -
Added : contractual support.  
Added : 153. If a bank is found to have provided implicit support on more than one occasion, the 
Added : bank is required to disclose its transgression publicly and the Central Bank  will take 
Added : appropriate action that may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:  
Added : i. The bank may be prevented from gaining favourable capital treatment on 
Added : securiti sed assets for a period of time to be determined by the Central Bank ; 
Added : ii. The bank may be required to hold capital against all securitised assets as though 
Added : the bank had created a commitment to them, by applying a conversion factor to 
Added : the risk weight of the underlying assets;  
Added : iii. For purposes of capital calculations, the bank may be required to treat all 
Added : securiti sed assets as if they remained on the balance sheet;  
Added : iv. The bank must be required by the Central Bank  to hold regulatory capital in excess 
Added : of the minimum risk -based capital ratios.  
Added : 154. The Central Bank  will be vigilant in determining  implicit support and will take 
Added : appropriate supervisory action to mitigate the effects. Pending any investigation, the bank 
Added : may be prohibited from any capital relief for planned securitisation transactions (moratorium ). 
Added : The Central Bank ’s response will be aimed at changing the bank’s behaviour with regard to 
Added : the provision of implicit support, and to correct market perception as to the willingness of the 
Added : bank to provide future recourse beyond contractual obligations.  
Added : Residual risks  
Added :  
Added : 155. As with credit risk mitig ation techniques more generally, the Central Bank  will review 
Added : the appropriateness of banks’ approaches to the recognition of credit protection. In particular, 
Added : with regard to securitisations, the Central Bank  will review the appropriateness of protection 
Added : recognised against first loss credit enhancements. On these positions, expected loss is less 
Added : likely to be a significant element of the risk and is likely to be retained by the protection buyer 
Added : through the prici ng. Therefore, the Central Bank  will expect banks’ policies to take account 
Added : of this in determining their economic capital. If the Central Bank  does not consider the 
Added : approach to protection recognised as adequate, action will be taken. Such action may 
Added : includ e increasing the capital requirement against a particular transaction or class of 
Added : transactions.  
Added : Call provisions  
Added :  
Added : 156. The Central Bank  expects a bank not to make use of clauses that entitles it to call 
Added : the securitisation transaction or the coverage of credit pr otection prematurely if this would 
Added : increase the bank’s exposure to losses or deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying 
Added : exposures.  
Added : 157. Besides the general principle stated above, the Central Bank  expects banks to only 
Added : execute clean -up calls for econ omic business purposes, such as when the cost of servicing  
Added : 180  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Added : the outstanding credit exposures exceeds the benefits of servicing the underlying credit 
Added : exposures.  
Added : 158. Subject to national discretion, the Central Bank  will require a review prior to the bank 
Added : exercisi ng a call which can be expected to include consideration of:  
Added : i. The rationale for the bank’s decision to exercise the call; and  
Added : ii. The impact of the exercise of the call on the bank’s regulatory capital ratio.  
Added : 159. The Central Bank  will also require the bank to enter  into a follow -up transaction, if 
Added : necessary, depending on the bank’s overall risk profile, and existing market conditions.  
Added : 160. Date related calls must be set at a date no earlier than the duration or the weighted 
Added : average life of the underlying securitisation e xposures. Accordingly, supervisory authorities 
Added : may require a minimum period to elapse before the first possible call date can be set, given, 
Added : for instance, the existence of up -front sunk costs of a capital market securiti sation 
Added : transaction.  
Added : Early amortisati on 
Added :  
Added : 161. The Central Bank  will review how banks internally measure, monitor, and manage 
Added : risks associated with securitisations of revolving credit facilities, including an assessment of 
Added : the risk and likelihood of early amortisation of such transactions. At a min imum, the Central 
Added : Bank  will ensure that banks have implemented reasonable methods for allocating economic 
Added : capital against the economic substance of the credit risk arising from revolving securitisations 
Added : and must expect banks to have adequate capital and liquidity contingency plans that 
Added : evaluate the probability of an early amortisation occurring and address the implications of 
Added : both scheduled and early amortisation. In addition, the capital contingency plan must 
Added : address the possibility that the bank will fa ce higher levels of required capital under the early 
Added : amortisation Pillar 1 capital requirement.  
Added : 162. Because most early amortisation triggers are tied to excess spread levels, the factors 
Added : affecting these levels must be well understood, monitored, and managed, t o the extent 
Added : possible by the originating bank. For example, the following factors affecting excess spread 
Added : must generally be considered:  
Added : i. Interest payments made by borrowers on the underlying receivable balances;  
Added : ii. Other fees and charges to be paid by the unde rlying obligors (e.g. late -payment 
Added : fees, cash advance fees, over -limit fees);  
Added : iii. Gross charge -offs; 
Added : iv. Principal payments;  
Added : v. Recoveries on charged -off loans;  
Added : vi. Interchange income;  
Added : vii. Interest paid on investors’ certificates;  
Added : viii. Macroeconomic factors such as bankruptcy rates, interest rate movements, 
Added : unemployment rates; etc.  
Added : 163. Banks must consider the effects that changes in portfolio management or business 
Added : strategies may have on the levels of excess spread and on the likelihood of an early 
Added : amortisation event. For example, marketing strategies or underwriting changes that result in 
Added : lower finance charges or higher charge -offs, might also lower excess spread levels and 
Added : increase the likelihood of an early amortisation event.  
Added : 164. Banks must use techniques such as static pool cash co llections analyses and stress 
Added : tests to better understand pool performance. These techniques can highlight adverse trends 
Added : or potential adverse impacts. Banks must have policies in place to respond promptly to 
Added : adverse or unanticipated changes. The C entral Ba nk will take appropriate action where they 
Added : do not consider these policies adequate. Such action may include, but is not limited to,  
Added : 181  CBUAE Classification: Restricted  
Added : directing a bank to obtain a dedicated liquidity line or raising the early amortisation credit 
Added : conversion factor, thus, incr easing the bank’s capital requirements.  
Added : 165. While the early amortisation capital charge described in Pillar 1 is meant to address 
Added : potential supervisory concerns associated with an early amortisation event, such as the 
Added : inability of excess spread to cover potent ial losses, the policies and monitoring described in 
Added : this section recognise that a given level of excess spread is not, by itself, a perfect proxy for 
Added : credit performance of the underlying pool of exposures. In some circumstances, for example, 
Added : excess spread  levels may decline so rapidly as to not provide a timely indicator of underlying 
Added : credit deterioration. Further, excess spread levels may reside far above trigger levels, but 
Added : still exhibit a high degree of volatility, which could warrant supervisory attent ion. In addition, 
Added : excess spread levels can fluctuate for reasons unrelated to underlying credit risk, such as a 
Added : mismatch in the rate at which finance charges reprice relative to investor certificate rates. 
Added : Routine fluctuations of excess spread might not ge nerate supervisory concerns, even when 
Added : they result in different capital requirements. This is particularly the case as a bank moves in 
Added : or out of the first step of the early amortisation credit conversion factors. On the other hand, 
Added : existing excess spread l evels may be maintained by adding (or designating) an increasing 
Added : number of new accounts to the master trust, an action that would tend to mask potential 
Added : deterioration in a portfolio. For all of these reasons, supervisors will place particular emphasis 
Added : on i nternal management, controls, and risk monitoring activities with respect to 
Added : securitisations with early amortisation features.  
Added : 166. The C entral Bank  expects that the sophistication of a bank’s system in monitoring 
Added : the likelihood and risks of an early amortisati on event will be commensurate with the size 
Added : and complexity of the bank’s securitisation activities that involve early amortisation 
Added : provisions.  
Added : 167. For controlled amortisations specifically, the Central Bank  will also review the process 
Added : by which a bank determin es the minimum amortisation period required to pay down 90% of 
Added : the outstanding balance at the point of early amortisation. Where the Central Bank  does not 
Added : consider this adequate, it will take appropriate action, such as increasing the conversion 
Added : factor ass ociated with a particular transaction or class of  transactions.  
Added :  
Added : VII. Shari’ah  Implementation  
Added :  
Added : Banks provid ing Islamic financial services must comply with the requirements and provisions 
Added : of this standard  for their Shari’ah  compliant transactions that are alternative to transactions 
Added : referred to in this Standard, provided it is acceptable by  Islamic  Shari’ah . This is applicable 
Added : until relevant standards and/or guidance  are issued specifically for  transactions of banks 
Added : offering  Islamic financial services  
Added :  
Added :  
Added :  
Added :  
